The Proteas are going to take a lot of confidence from their form in the last eight months, having won Test series against the West Indies and the No 1-ranked India, drawn with the reigning world Test champions in New Zealand, won 13 out of 16 T20 internationals and also hammered India 3-0 in an ODI series. So there are definite signs of regrowth in a team that seems to have turned the corner under Mark Boucher and Dean Elgar. In a month’s time they will be playing another Test series as they host Bangladesh in Durban and Gqeberha, and coach Boucher is keen to keep climbing the World Test Championship table, having already taken crucial points off the two finalists of the previous edition.  ALSO READ:  ‘This is a big one,’ says Elgar after Hagley Oval risk pays off for Proteas The 12 points gained this week in Christchurch move South Africa into fourth place. “It’s been a tough couple of months without a lot of time at home with our families and then there’s Bangladesh, which will be another tough series,” Boucher said. “We are still very much in the World Test Championship and we will take confidence from this series in New Zealand and learn from our mistakes in the first Test. But it’s clear we are heading down the right road.” ALSO READ: Elgar hails ‘brilliant’ Proteas character, praises ‘new’ players Given the enormous resilience the team has shown in coming back from 1-0 down against both India and New Zealand, it was only fitting that Boucher should pay tribute to his captain Elgar for his leadership. “Dean talks a lot but he follows it up with action,” Boucher said. “We knew we would be under pressure in the second game and we chatted about walking towards the challenge, not running away. “We understood what was required in the second Test and there were a couple of brave calls like Dean winning the toss and batting first, and then batting the way he did. It’s not as if he was batting No 5. “He’s the opening batsman and he fronted up and walked straight into the pressure. He’s been fantastic and I know the team really look up to him and back him in a very strong way.”