A woman died and three others were wounded when two vehicles collided head-on along Barrage Road in Vanderbijlpark. According to ER24 paramedics, the accident involved two light motor vehicles on Tuesday night. One of the vehicles was found in the middle of the road with four women occupants trapped inside. The other vehicle came to a halt on the side of the Barrage road. The women were rescued by the medics with specialised rescue equipment. Unfortunately, one of the three women succumbed to her injuries and other were left critically injured. “Once released, the women were treated and provided with advanced life support interventions before they were transported to Sebokeng Provincial hospital for urgent care”, the ER24 medics said. “It is understood that another service on the scene treated other patients from the second vehicle”, they concluded. 19 family members killed in head-on collision between taxi and truck This follows a head-on collision that claimed the lives of nineteen family members in North West in February. The collision involved a taxi and a truck on the R34 between Bloemhof and Schweizer-Reneke.  It was reported the family was allegedly from a family gathering in Bloemhof and were on their way home to Ipelegeng Location in Schweizer-Reneke. ALSO READ: Passenger killed, driver critical after vehicle flies off N1 highway In an unrelated incident in January,twelve people died while eight others escaped with injuries in a head-on collision involving a 22-seater Iveco bus and a Toyota SUV on the N1 near Mookgophong off-ramp in Limpopo. It was alleged the driver of the SUV lost control of the vehicle due to a tyre burst and collided head-on with a 22 seater Mercedes Benz bus. “The bus burst into flames and eleven occupants trapped inside were burnt to death. The driver of the SUV was also killed on impact. Eight people survived, six are seriously injured and two escaped with minor injuries.”  Additional information by Citizen Reporter NOW READ: Nine killed in horror crash on N2 in Eastern Cape