Kanye ‘Ye’ West and Kim Kardashian were officially declared single in court last week Friday but just hours later, the rapper released a disturbing music video of him burying Pete Davidson. In his new single Eazy featuring The Game, Ye disses Kim’s boyfriend Pete. Ye followed this up with a clay model music video to the song, where he took things a step further.  The Stronger rapper can be seen putting a bag over a character that looks like the Saturday Night Live comedian, before tying him up and kidnapping him.  He then drives him out to a remote area and buries the funny man in sand up to his neck. The 44-year-old’s animated replica can then be seen sprinkling rose seeds on and around Pete’s head.  The flowers eventually bloom and Kanye returns to cut several roses that have sprouted out of Pete’s head and load them onto a pick-up truck. The roses seem to symbolise the red roses Ye sent to Kim on Valentine’s Day.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The music video ends with the caption: “Everyone lived happily ever after, except for Skete, you know who (just kidding), he’s fine.”   “Skete” is the name Ye has given Pete.  Kim and Pete started dating in October 2021, news Kanye has not taken this well since their separation in May 2021.  Ye has displayed erratic behaviour and has constantly criticised Kim since, with some people saying his outbursts and actions display elements of stalking.  ALSO READ: ‘This is scary and it doesn’t have to be’ – Kim Kardashian urges Kanye to stop The award-winning artist did hit back at critics, saying the video is a form of therapy.  After a court declared her legally single, Kim dropped the West surname in all her social media accounts.  Kim hasn’t clearly responded to Kanye’s video, but she did like a tweet by director James Gunn, who said that Pete was one of the “nicest and sweetest” guys he knows. RELATED: Kim and Kanye West’s divorce finalised Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele