This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak warned Monday that a ban on Russian oil imports would have “catastrophic” consequences, as Western allies consider further sanctions on Moscow over Ukraine. “A ban on Russian oil will lead to catastrophic consequences for the global market. The surge in prices will be unpredictable — more than $300 per barrel, if not more,” Novak said in remarks carried by Russian news agencies.  Novak added that it would be “impossible” to quickly replace Russian oil on the European market.  “It will take more than one year and it will be much more expensive for European consumers,” he said.  “European politicians should then honestly warn their citizens, consumers what awaits them and that prices at gas stations, for electricity, for heating will skyrocket,” he said.  Novak said talks of an embargo on Russian oil creates “instability and leads to significant harm for consumers”.  ALSO READ: Sanctions on Russian oil can lead to same shortage as in 1973 He added that in retaliation for the halt on the Nord Stream 2 pipeline project, Russia could stop supplies via the Nord Stream 1 pipeline.  “So far we have not made this decision. Nobody will benefit from this,” Novak said.  “Although European politicians are pushing us to this with their statements and accusations against Russia,” he added.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. US President Joe Biden has made no decision at this stage on a possible ban on imports of Russian oil and gas in response to the invasion of Ukraine, the White House said. “No decision has been made at this point,” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters. She said the question had been raised during Biden’s talks Monday with the leaders of Germany, France and Britain, while adding: “We have different capacities and capabilities.”