With the Nedbank Cup fixture against Kaizer Chiefs coming up next month, TS Galaxy head coach Sead Ramovic reckons they have a good chance against Amakhosi, who are not as lively as they are when they have the backing of their fans at the stadium. READ ALSO: Chiefs’ day of reckoning has come, Pirates to also face PSL DC  The Rockets were drawn against the Glamour Boys for the last 32 round of the Ke Yona Cup earlier this month. However, despite having identified Chiefs’ weakness, Ramovic believes they are still a good team, but he has been focusing on improving his side. “Kaizer Chiefs is a team that has incredible good quality with an outstanding coach. The backbone of the team is very good. They also have some leadership players in the team. All-in-all, they are a really tough team to play against. Their weakness is that the great supporters they have are not at the stadium,” the Galaxy mentor told the club’s media. “For us, besides improvement of tactical abilities, we focussed on the development of the players, with physical conditioning, such as endurance, strength and speed is emphasised. We also have to develop a winning attitude, play better defensively and be more clinical upfront. It’s not about being the best, but being better than we were yesterday.” The Galaxy coach wants his charges to be at their best when they meet Amakhosi in the cup competition and highlights the need for the players to start believing in themselves. “We have some good quality players in the team, but in the end, the players who will play are the ones who are in great shape. They have to be good in passing, receiving and moving the ball,” he added. “The key is to show up, work hard, and listen. Then you will be on your way to understanding what it is to be a champion. Always believe in yourself, strive to be the very best that you can be and you will already be a champion. This is how we are now, and we will be ready to give any opponent we play against a tough time.” With the tournament expected to be played in February, dates, venues and times for the fixtures are yet to be confirmed.