The man who had to foot the R1.3 million bill at a nightclub over the weekend has been identified as a Zimbabwean pastor.  The man, Passion Java, was identified by Zimbabwean media and The South African as the face behind the 100 bottles of champagne splurge, which grabbed the attention of social media over the weekend. The picture of the bill showed the majority of the costs were for booze, particularly from champagne brand Ace of Spade Rose.  ALSO READ: WTF?! R1 million nightclub bill shocks Twitter users Lifestyle Brooklyn charges R10,000 for one bottle of Ace of Spades – and the table ordered 100 bottles. According to his Instagram account, which has over 500,000 followers, he is a prophet and CEO of Kingdom Embassy Church in Zimbabwe.  Java also founded the music label Passion Java Records.  His other titles include being a socialite and a book author. He was born in Harare on October 29, 1987, and is the youngest of six children.  His mother, Buhera Cristine Rambanepasi Java, is a member of the opposition party MDC Alliance, and his late father, Charles Java, was also in politics.  His mother told the Sunday News that when Passion was in Grade 4, he prophesied his own father’s death, warning him not to travel to a memorial service.  It was reported that the father disregarded the warning, only to die a few days after returning from the service.    Passion is from Java Village in Buhera Central, and his road to ministry started at his brother’s church Tabernacles of Grace, before starting his own church Kingdom Embassy in 2010.  He is known for prophesying and predicting phone numbers and ID numbers of audience members in services.  Passion is married to Lilly Java, and they have three children together. His lavish lifestyle has previously grabbed the attention of Zimbabwean media, who have criticised his flamboyance and his relationship with the country’s president Emmerson Mnangagwa.  Passion is never shy to show off his tailored suits, designer watches, luxury clothes and sports cars. He also declared this week that he would donate $5 million (R77.8 million) to the less privileged.  “This year I have set aside a budget of $5 million towards helping the less privileged, widows and orphans in Zimbabwe. I will also be assisting entrepreneurs with business loans from this fund, beginning February 2022.  “My life is dedicated to being a blessing to my nation. I am investing in making Vision 2030 a reality, ” he wrote on Instagram.  Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele