The day of reckoning has come for Kaizer Chiefs who will on Friday afternoon face the Premier Soccer League’s disciplinary committee. This is in relation to their failure to honour two of their DStv Premiership fixtures in December. READ ALSO: ‘Incredible’: Nigerian refugee girls join football fiesta at AFCON Amakhosi could not host Cape Town City and also could not travel to Durban to play Golden Arrows last month. They had asked the PSL that their games for the month be postponed after a Covid-19 outbreak that allegedly saw over 30 people including players and other personnel infected by the deadly virus in Naturena. Their pleas for postponement were denied as the rules stated that Covid-19 could not be used as grounds for postponement or abandonment of games. The rule had been signed by all the 32-member clubs of the PSL before the season started.  The PSL’s new prosecutor, Zola Majavu had set the date for January 21 for the hearing and he on Thursday sent out a public reminder for the DC sitting.   “By way of a reminder the matter of Kaizer Chiefs will be proceeding tomorrow, Friday January 21, at 4pm. Upon the finalisation of that matter I will similarly issue a further update,” said Majavu.  Chiefs have meanwhile set-up a strong legal presentation which is led by Karabo Mathang-Tshabuse and former PSL prosecutor Norman Arendse for the case. Their Soweto neighbours and biggest rivals, Orlando Pirates have also meanwhile been called up to the DC for their own misdemeanors.  The Buccaneers are charged for the incident that happened in December involving TS Galaxy owner Tim Sukazi who was denied entry into Orlando Stadium’s changerooms when his team played Pirates in December.  “Orlando Pirates FC was charged yesterday and their matter has been enrolled for hearing at 2pm on Wednesday January 26,” “This is in relation to the misconduct arising from the chairperson of TS Galaxy being denied entry into the stadium. “The charges proffered against Pirates relate to that incident. When the DC is finalised, at whatever date and time, I will come back and provide details on the outcome of the DC hearing,” said Majavu.