Mitsubishi has made a surprise U-turn on its streamlining of the ASX range just under two years ago, by expanding the lineup from two to four models while introducing two new trim level denominators never before available in South Africa. Officially Mitsubishi’s oldest model having debuted nearly 12 years ago, the ASX, which received an extensive mid-life update in 2019, and is due for replacing by a completely new model next year, remains unchanged inside and out, but as mentioned, features a choice of trim grades once again. ALSO READ: Updated Mitsubishi ASX wants to be taken more seriously Mirroring the monikers used in Australia, the ES serves as the entry-level model with the flagship carrying the LS designation. Mitsubishi has, however, confirmed availability of the equally-new Aspire grade later this year as a step-up from the LS.  In broadening the ASX, Mitsubishi has made changes to the specification sheet to differ the ES from the LS, though surprisingly, both still come with an inclusive array of features. Standard fare therefore is all-around electric windows, auto on/off LED headlights with daytime running LEDs, cruise control, rain sense wipers, a leather-wrapped multi-function steering wheel, keyless entry, Hill Start Assist, rear parking sensors, push-button start, traction control and Active Stability Control. Reserved for the LS though is automatic air-conditioning in place of the ES’ manual arrangement, leather seats with the fronts being heated, 18 as opposed to 16-inch alloy wheels, folding instead of conventional electric mirrors, a panoramic glass roof and a reverse camera. The LS also comes as standard with an eight-inch touchscreen infotainment system that incorporates Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, whereas the ES makes do with a conventional LCD setup. Both units do however have Bluetooth and USB with voice control being reserved for the former. Up front, Mitsubishi has again made no alterations, meaning the ASX continues with the normally aspirated 2.0-litre petrol that produces 110kW/197Nm. Drive is once again routed to the front wheels via a five-speed manual gearbox or a CVT. As before, the ASX’s sticker price includes a three-year/100 000 km warranty as well as a three-year/60 000 km service plan.