South Africa’s Director of Rugby, Rassie Erasmus joined thousands of South Africans heading back to work on Monday morning after a long December holiday. Erasmus, who was banned by World Rugby from all rugby activities for two months in November last year as well as taking part in match days until October 2022, finally returned to work on Monday morning and his daughters seem extremely relieved. ALSO READ: World Rugby suspend Rassie Erasmus, fine SA Rugby The 48-year-old World Cup-winning South African rugby coach and former international player is usually very private when it comes to his family. Taking to Twitter on Sunday afternoon, Rassie delighted South Africans with a short video of his three daughters thanking World Rugby for only slapping their dad with a two-month ban. Tweeps were quick to comment how the apple doesn’t fall far from the tree saying that Rassie’s youngest is a “chip off the dad block”. “The younger one, a chip off the dad block. Coach your daughters are beautiful. Thank you to you and Frank for sharing and allowing us into your space. It was fun, light hearted and most entertaining. Now the hard work begins, go get them,” one fan responded in the comments section. Rassie’s older twin daughters said that they are so tired of him being at home and that they have all received enough life lessons and advice while he was at home. “I think it’s enough and it’s time for him to go back. We are very grateful that the day has arrived for him to go back to work tomorrow. This whole experience gave us a lot of positives and negatives. Positives is that Frank is now a South African citizen, and negatives are looking for clothes because my dad treated everyday like a Friday, that’s why he has no clothes. Nothing fits him at the moment.” Frank is the family’s English bulldog, who Rassie has been spending a lot of time with while he was off. He regularly shared videos of Frank on his Twitter account. South Africans have come to love Frank so much they are calling for him to be the new Bok mascot. His youngest daughter, Jani, also took the opportunity to thank all of Rassie’s fans for their support, while the twins added that they really felt the support through all the tweets and they know how much that meant to their dad. “We really appreciate it, and we know he appreciates it so much as well.”