If you feel that this year feels like what 2020 should have felt like and you are ready to get out and explore more, these events are the perfect starting point.  Now that the curfew has been dropped and Covid-19 cases are declining, people are ready to be around their friends and family again, and to enjoy themselves at various events on offer across the country.   Hedwig Barry is showcasing a solo exhibition that brings together a collection of new sculptures and paintings completed while she did a seven-week residency at NIROX.  NIROX is a sculpture park and artist residency, with workshops and outdoor concert venues, located in Krugersdorp, just an hour’s drive from Johannesburg central.   Barry’s series dramatises the relationship between force, scale and fragility, and his sculptures explore the relationship between destruction and preservation, force and form.  She will also present paintings on canvas that continue her exploration of automotive paints and painting techniques used on the Crumples’ surfaces. The exhibition opens on 22 January and will run until 13 March 2022 at the Nirox grounds.  As the Durban July is still months away, the racing calendar is filling up as the Cape Town Met returns after a hiatus caused by Covid-19.  The Cape Town Met 2022 theme is Glam Gardens, and we are hoping that attendees will rise to the occasion and dress to impress on the day.  Set in the popular backdrop of Kenilworth Racecourse, the Met is a day event that features 10 horse races by some of the top jockeys in South Africa.   There will be live performances from top local artists including Zakes Bantwini on the day.  Other artists include GoodLuck, DJs Dean Fuel and Desiree who will entertain crowds throughout the day.  People interested in attending will need a valid ID and a valid vaccination card to gain access.  Tickets are available on Webtickets or in any Pick n Pay store nationwide. Prices start at R40 per person for general admission and R100 for grandstand access. For access to exclusive areas with hospitality, prices start from R1 000 for two people. Cape Town MET 2022 will take place on 29 January.  Considered the biggest market in Johannesburg, The PlayGround is back.  Many will know it as the old Neighbourgoods Market, which have undergone a revamp to add more to the market.  The PlayGround will be an experience combining food, art, design, fashion and music.  The market will take place every Saturday, where visitors can enjoy food from the best artisan stalls in gourmet street food and delicious cocktails.  Some of the food stalls include Wings Republic, Durban Deli, FeedMeFancy, ServeMeSweet, The Shwarma Guys, Vegan Meals/Erica’s Meals and much more, as there are 30 stalls.  The launch of Joburg’s new market The PlayGround takes place on Saturday, 29 January in Braamfontein, 73 Juta Street, on the rooftop.  Durban has experienced wet and rainy weather recently but this winter wonderland may be a necessary escape for some people and a chance to make use of those winter clothes.  You can build your dream snowman or make your very own snow angel at the Snow Wonderland, Gateway Theatre of Shopping in Durban.  Kids and adults alike will enjoy playing in the snow on the snow slopes or testing their throwing arm against the snow target wall.  Sessions run for a period of 45 minutes and costs R95 for a full access ticket.  Snow Wonderland is open from 20 January.  Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele