South Africans are somewhat used to MacGyver “MacG” Mukwevho antics on his popular podcast.  However when an international artist Ari Lennox was interviewed by the Podcast and Chill host she was taken aback by his bluntness.  MacG’s show is known for its fair share of controversies and when the media personality interviewed American RnB singer Ari Lennox his line of questioning was surprising.  In a clip shared on Twitter, MacG asks Ari if someone has been “f**king her good right now.” Ari responded: “Oh my God, uhm I am not happy… wow that is a foul question… why ask it in that way, woah.” MacG laughed throughout her reaction, saying the question come from a reference to one of her songs.  ALSO READ: Pearl Thusi stands by Dineo Ranaka after Metro FM suspension The singer was confused as to what song this was, but remembered it was Pop, and admitted MacG caught her off guard.   In the interview, Ari did answer the question eventually, saying she wasn’t seeing anyone currently. There was a mixed reaction to MacG’s line of questioning.  On one side of the argument, some said this was his style of interviewing people, while others said what transpired was distasteful.  There was also mention it was hypocritical for people to think it was okay for MacG to ask Zodwa Wabantu a similar line of questioning, but not Ari.  Twitter user Lxndon wrote: “MacG can ask Zodwa Wabantu about her sex life but not Ari Lennox as if Ari doesn’t say nasty stuff on her music!… He literally quoted her and she went from uncomfortable to “oooh you caught me off guard there”, yoh! The interview continued with Ari discussing her experience as a black woman in America and the racism she has dealt with, but said the country is great, despite the traumas.  The singer says her musical inclination started at a young age, adding that she started writing music at the age of four years old.  Ari Lennox is her stage name, her real name is Courtney Shanade Salter, but says she only started finding herself musically as Ari.   She has collaborated with a South African musician before, hip hop star Nasty C, for the smash hit Black and White.