No matter what Mohale Motaung does or posts, it always circles back to his past relationship with media personality Somizi Mhlongo.  Innocently posting his food cravings of a South African lunch favourite, slap chips, magwinya and Russian, Mohale took to social media to share that he was stress eating.  The now radio host may be regretting sharing his food cravings, after tweeps managed to make the post about his ex and the conspiracy theories that his relationship was for fame.  Stress eating. ???? pic.twitter.com/Dz5UJ1xC8h Commentators said that Mohale was missing the “soft life” that Somizi introduced him to, such as luxury items and lifestyle.  There were also people who said Mohale was broke because he was posting a meal considered a ‘workman’s’ meal.  Some Twitter users who noticed the negative comments wondered how Mohale dealt with the online abuse every day on Twitter.  Inevitably, there were also sexual connotations to the Russian on the plate.  You broke now? pic.twitter.com/Ai7wmcJmy8— I AM THE CHIEF JUSTICE ???????? (@Chiefj111) January 26, 2022 You miss somizi’s soft life ❤️Kuzolunga bafanas— Chabe kgalalelo (@Chabe_kgalalelo) January 26, 2022 Why is everything about Somizi?dont you guys get tired mara with this boring topic— Milly_Makhubela (@MillyMakhubela) January 26, 2022 Mohale how do u manage to stand for all this abuse that u get every day on twitter— Lerato Taele (@LeratoTaele2) January 26, 2022 That Russian is giving you flash backs I'm sure???????????? pic.twitter.com/3rfuBpPZPB— $pot Jr (@SpotJr2) January 26, 2022 However, there were also people who wanted to know why he was eating the dish with magwinya, and not rolls and where the atchar was?  Mohale has been trying to make his own footprint in the industry after his messy breakup with estranged husband Somizi.  Last year we saw him dabble in acting, presenting, charity work, radio, opening his own company supporting matrics and being an ambassador for several brands such as Mini Cooper.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Somizi and Mohale seem to have both moved on, with reports in the media that Mohale was dating Wiseman Zitha – a 26-year-old model, actor and TV personality. He, however, said they are only friends. Mohale claimed his estranged husband physically abused him in the early stages of their relationship.  Somizi denied the allegation and said that Mohale was trying to sabotage his career and that their divorce will be settled “fairly and responsibly”. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: WATCH: Somizi outraged after being spotted living it up with new bae Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele