Monique Muller has seen Katlego Maboe’s statement about the outcome of their court case and she is not happy. Taking to Instagram stories, Monique implored the journalists covering the story to get their hands on the judgment from the case and make their own determinations about its outcome as Maboe and his team were “trying to control the narrative”. “To set the record straight, as per the agreement between the two parties, there has been no new acts of domestic violence since the application of the IPO,” wrote Monique in reference to the interim protection order she obtained against Maboe.  “This is the correct outcome as per the court ruling,” she added. Monique said she was no longer “gagged” from speaking up and would therefore no longer “allow these false narratives to continue”.  She said she would love to be left alone but not at the expense of telling the truth. She posted a screenshot of a letter from the legal practice counsel regarding a complaint she had previously laid against Maboe’s lawyer, whom she had accused of misconduct.  “On 18 May 2021, an Investigation Committee considered the matter. The Comittee is prima facie of the view that Ms Louis is guilty of misconduct.” In the letter dated 15 July 2021, the counsel added that she would be afforded an opportunity to respond and that a final decision would be made thereafter. “She has since been found guilty of misconduct (to which she said she was acting on instruction),” added Monique, who says she reported Louis for harassment, public defamation, malpractice and intimidation.  Monique said she was recently harassed by Maboe and an officer whom she reported to his station commander for misconduct.  In the response to her service complaint dated 27 January 2022, the same day of her court case with Maboe, the author of the email confirmed that the officer had been reprimanded for his conduct, citing that he acted the way he did because he felt intimidated having a “celebrity” demand his assistance.  He was “cautioned” on how to act moving forward.  “On 27 January 2022, TV personality Mr Katlego Maboe was absolved by the Magistrate’s Court against allegations of alleged misconduct made by his former partner Ms Monique Muller in October 2020.” According to the statement, the court ruled that there were no grounds for Muller to obtain a protection order against Maboe. “Furthermore, the court has not made a finding of acts of domestic violence that were allegedly perpetrated against Ms Muller, and as such, the matter has been dismissed. This is a great victory for Mr Maboe who has maintained his innocence throughout the two-year ordeal.” In the statement, Maboe confirmed that things had “settled into a routine” for the son he shares with Muller, hinting that they had reached some sort of agreement regarding co-parenting.He also thanked his friends and family for their support throughout the breakdown of his relationship and the public spectacle that ensued after he was exposed for cheating on Muller. “I may never know or understand the real motive behind all of this destruction and heartache right now, I just want to focus on putting the pieces of my life back together,” said Maboe. After reportedly obtaining a harassment order against Monique’s brother, Maboe is now pursuing legal action against Women For Change founder Sabrina Walter and Dr Janet van Eeden in her capacity as chairperson for the South African Film and Television Awards (Saftas). This, according to Maboe and his legal team, is due to the fact that his Saftas nomination was rescinded based on public statements made about him by Walter, whom he is charging with criminal defamation. Statement for immediate release: pic.twitter.com/JRnnMRBSJf— Katlego (@KatlegoMaboe) January 31, 2022