Former Generations actress Sophie Ndaba may have found new love after a difficult year in her personal life. It was reported by the Sunday Worldthat the actress and businesswoman has been dating a new man for about a year – a Nigerian pastor. The couple reportedly bonded over their faith in God and had an instant connection after meeting. The publication cited a close friend of Sophie’s who revealed that the mystery man is one of Shephard Bushiri’s pastors who goes by the name of Allen. The last public relationship Ndaba was in was with businessman Max Lichaba. Before that she was married to The Queen actor Themba Ndaba with whom she has two children. They got divorced in 2007.  Sophie’s relationship with Lichaba was messy, particularly after her son, Lwandle Ndaba, made serious allegations against his stepfather.  Lichaba and Sophie got married in a traditional wedding in 2018, and news broke out that they had separated in 2020 and were heading for a divorce. In the diss track, Lwandle alleges that Lichaba assaulted his mother after he cheated on her with Lwandle’s best friend. The song was a trending topic on social media and trended for days on end as some users praised Lwandle for making the song.  “You left your wife bruised up on your body. I won’t forget the day you hit her cause you cheated. You cheated with my best friend. She is young enough to be your daughter, R. Kelly wanna be,” he rapped on the diss track. Lwandle further expressed how happy he is that his mother eventually left Max and that he is grateful to God that Max is not his biological father. “I thank God that you are not my father, I feel for your children. My mama, I am glad she chose to leave,” he says in his song. Lichaba denied the abuse allegations but admitted he did cheat. Sophie showed support to her son during that time and said he’s her greatest gift.  “I thank God for giving me a miracle turned young strong confident respectful God-fearing son of sophla. I decree and declare a new season in your life. God is taking you where no man can block or stop you,” she wrote on Instagram.  Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele, additional reporting by Lerato Maimela.