Animal print has been making waves in the world of fashion for a couple of years now and it’s clearly not going anywhere this year. Whether it’s for the love of fashion or fun, these celebs have proven that animal print is here to stay. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Minki van der Westhuizen’s fashion sense has always been on trend and by the looks of things, her holiday was filled with animal print in various forms. She headed to the beach in a stunning animal print bikini and on New Years’ Eve, even the men in her life posed in fun, matching leopard print suits. READ: Minki van der Westhuizen glows in green at her brother’s wedding Melinda Bam couldn’t help reminiscing about her recent visit to the bushveld, even as she lounged by the sea over the festive season. She says that as much as she loves being on the beach and having sand in her “hair, mouth and bikini,” she sat dreaming about her recent bush experiences while spending time at the beach.  Her animal print bikini proves her love for the bush and so does the leopard print dress she wore while at the Sabi Sabi Earth Lodge as she watched the sun set. She says that she has now answered the age-old question – bush or beach – for herself at last. The bush is in her blood and her fashion sense certainly echoes her sentiment. The Slank presenter and Klein Karoo actress, Leandie du Randt explored Sea Point in Cape Town with friends over the festive season, wearing a glamorous, see-through, leopard print dress with puff sleeves and a black belt. It’s bold, yet elegant and proves that animal print is unquestionably still a thing. The Binnelanders actress, Cindy Swanepoel recently indulged in some bubbly with friends, dressed in an elegant dress with a snakeskin print that undoubtedly turned heads. She coupled it with some classy sunnies and minimalistic, golden earrings as a final touch. Whether it’s clothes, accessories or even nails, animal print is everywhere and if you’d like to stay on trend, having a li’l leopard print dress or a zebra print bikini in your cupboard will go a long way in 2022.