The Getroud met Rugby and Bakgat actor and singer, Altus Theart took to social media this morning, sharing a couple of precious photographs of him and his wife, Zetske van Pletzen’s wedding day, in celebration of their tenth wedding anniversary. The celebrity couple got married at Oxbow Country Estate in the East of Pretoria on 6 January 2012. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Altus coupled the photos, taken by Picture Me&U with a caption that reads: “Today ten years ago my beautiful wife @zetskevpletzen and I said I do! There were many ups and downs, fights and battles won, laughter and tears and best of all a little boy named Alexander.” The couple was the epitome of elegance on their wedding day – Altus in a grey, fitted suit and Zetske in an off-shoulder lace dress by Roedolf D Couture, detailed with a black ribbon belt and a beautiful, birdcage veil that added a touch of vintage flair. “I will choose you again,” he wrote. “I love you.” PICS: Getroud met Rugby’s Bibi and Jordan married at last Their outdoor wedding seems to have been filled with fun and laughter, with popcorn confetti, perfect weather and playful, classic James Bond poses, obviously worth reminiscing about ten years and a child later. Zetske also shared a couple of her favourite photos from the memorable day on her Instagram, asking: “How can it be ten years already?” She says that their wedding day was, and will always be one of the best days of her life and echoed his caption by saying that she loves him. Apart from acting, the Pretoria-born actress, runner and dancer Zetske is also the successful owner of the clothing range, Halo. She played the role of Julia in Getroud met Rugby and played a cameo role in the popular Afrikaans movie, Mooirivier. Altus plays the role of Fafa in Getroud met Rugby. He also played the lead in the critically acclaimed kykNET drama series, Kruispad and is known for his one-man show, Hoe ’n man se kop werk, which sold out at the KKNK and the Volksblad Festival. Viewers will also remember him from the film, Verraaiers, which was set in the 1950s Boer War.