The South African Police Service (Saps) arrested a woman for allegedly stabbing a man in Bainsvlei, near Bloemfontein, on Saturday, 29 January 2022. Officers at the Bainsvlei Community Service Centre received a complaint of a fight in Abrahamskraal Road near Mooiwater, a settlement eight kilometres west of Bloemfontein. “A patrol vehicle was despatched to attend and on arrival discovered the body of a male victim covered in blood on the side of the road,” Lieutenant-Colonel Thabo Covane said. Covane said officers found the victim’s passport. He was identified as a 45-year-old foreign national, that presumably resided at a plot on Ednau Road. ALSO READ: Police arrest 15-year-old who allegedly stabbed friend’s mom The 24-year-old suspect – who identified herself as the assailant – was still on the scene when the officers arrived. “It is alleged that the suspect had an asthmatic attack and she claims the victim slapped her [across] the face. The suspect then retaliated by fatally stabbing the victim [on the right arm] with a broken bottleneck,” Saps said. The police arrested the woman at about 3:40pm and a case of murder was opened at Bainsvlei police station. The suspect will appear in Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday, 1 February 2022. In an unrelated case, Free State police are investigating a case of murder after the body of a missing teen was found on Saturday with multiple stab wounds. According to police spokesperson, Warrant Officer Mmako Mophiring, the horrific finding of Luyanda Mvelase’s body shocked police, his family, and the community of Intabazwe near Harrismith. Mvelase, aged 16, went missing on 27 January 2022. Mophiring said police received a complaint of a body of a teenage boy found in the veld near Skomplaas section of Intabazwe. The deceased was positively identified by his mother and a case of murder is being investigated. Any person with information that may lead to the arrest and conviction of the suspect(s) can contact Harrismith police at 058 624 1000 or Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or by using MySAPS app, Mophiring said in a statement. Additional information by Thapelo Lekabe. ALSO READ: Four pupils stabbed in KZN school robbery