American rapper, record producer and fashion designer Kanye West shocked many on social media over the weekend when he posted a video of himself addressing certain issues regarding the birthday party of his daughter, Chicago.  In the video, Kanye West said he was making the video to publicly wish Chicago (affectionately referred to as Chi), a happy birthday.  He then claimed that he was doing so because he wasn’t allowed to attend the party and the location of the birthday party was being kept from him.  Kanye said he tried to contact a number of people, including his estranged wife, Kim Kardashian and the children’s nannies who weren’t picking up his calls.  “That’s gonna imprint in her (Chicago) mind that I wasn’t there for her”, he said in the first of two videos.  Chicago is Kanye’s third child with the 41-year-old media personality, Kim Kardashian and she was named after the American city that Kanye originates from.  Chicago turned four over the weekend and her socialite mother put together a Barbie and LOL Doll theme party which was attended by family and friends of the Kardashian and Jenner family. The party was also a joined party shared with Chicago’s cousin, Stormi, who is the daughter of Kim’s youngest sister Kylie and rapper Travis Scott.  He said he eventually found his way to the party, which was reportedly at Kylie’s house after Travis Scott sent him the address.  In the second video he posted, Kanye expressed gratitude towards the fellow rapper for sending him the address to the birthday celebration. “I’m so happy right now, I just came from Chi’s party. I want to send a shoutout to Travis Scott for sending me the address and the time and making sure I was able to spend that birthday memory with my daughter”, he said.   According to TMZ, the recently divorced couple agreed to have two separate birthday celebrations for Chi. The other celebration was supposed to be at the record producers house scheduled for right after her first celebration where her father was meant to pick her up. Fox News reports that this was Kanye’s idea and Kim is therefore shocked that he claimed to have been kept away from the first party.