Events season is back in full swing after taking a long break due to the Covid-19 pandemic which started in March 2020. Cotton Fest 2022 is one of the most highly anticipated events on the social calendar.  Taking to social media, South African hip hop artist and fashion enthusiast Riky Rick shared a poster to announce the return of his highly anticipated music festival. The artist started off his post by revealing that the musical festival will be taking place over two days in March, and is set to take place at The Station in Newtown, Johannesburg. “I’m very excited to announce the 3rd annual @cottonfestjhb is set to take place over 2 days, 19 and 20 March 2022 at The Station in Newtown, Johannesburg,” said Riky Rick.  The theme for this year’s Cotton Fest will be ‘The University of Cotton Fest”, which will be a campus experience for all patrons attending the festival who will get the chance to witness over 100 South African artists and DJ’s perform on three set stages.  “This year we bring you the UNIVERSITY OF COTTON FEST. Our multi-layered festival campus experience includes 3 stages featuring over 100 of South Africa’s finest performers and DJs,” said the fashion enthusiast.  ALSO READ: SA hip hop at a glance: Your favourite rappers are no longer on top The festival will be made up of many different elements such as music, sports, and fashion to cater for the entertainment of the vast target audience who will be attending the two-day affair.   “Following the past 20 months that we have all lived through, we are humbled to be back yet again to make an impact in the entertainment industry.  “With the huge support and backing from artists from around the country, we are ready to kickstart the road back to normality in a positive way, and get the Creator Economy going again. “ With the industry currently flipped on its head, Cotton Fest, together with exciting partners hope to bring together the industry, and celebrate the graduation of the first class from the University of Cotton Fest 2022,” said Riky Rick.  Tickets for the highly anticipated event will be available from WebTickets and Pick n Pay outlets from Monday 31 January with prices ranging from R200 to R600.