We spend a lot of time in our bed, so it is kind of concerning that not enough of us clean it as often as we should. We get it, cleaning a mattress can be daunting given how big and bulky it is, but there is no reason why you can’t “hack” the process and refresh your mattress, give it a good clean and finally get rid of those stains.   Not only will you enjoy the feeling of settling down into some fresh sheets and a better smelling mattress, you’ll also be extending the life of your mattress by caring for it.  According to Express UK, it can contain an estimated 500g of your dead skin on it due to the fact that you naturally lose dry and dead skin cells as you sleep. Bed bugs and other microscopic creatures that live deep down in the fabric love to snack on the residue within the fabric. That includes all the sweat that seeps in, along with things that may occasionally spill on the bed if you’re the type to drink to enjoy a snack there.  You may not have to do this as often as you wash your sheets and pillows, but it is important that you make time to give your bed a good clean once in a while.  Express UK advises giving your mattress “a good air every so often” as this can stop it from becoming smelly. As you would with large, fabric-covered items in your home, the easiest way to clean your bed would be to vacuum it.  It would be even better if you have the kind of vacuum that comes with an upholstery attachment as this can be used to lift dirt as you clean.  You can sprinkle some baking soda or fabric refreshing power onto the mattress before vacuuming to give it that new smell.  Don’t skip the underside of your mattress when cleaning as it also gets dirty too. For stains, take some liquid detergent or a small amount of powder detergent mixed with water, dab a clean cloth into the solution and lightly rub the stain.  It is best to avoid making the cloth too wet when doing this and it would also be a good idea to do this on a day when you won’t immediately need to use the bed in order to give it time to air out and dry.  Or you could just call some professionals to get the job done.  Compiled by Kaunda Selisho