Matriculants who prefer to take a gap year and those who decide not to study after school may find job-hunting rather daunting, especially in these trying times.  Certain job requirements like “we require candidates with four years’ worth of experience for this position” can be disheartening and demotivating.  But, youngsters looking to land a good entry-level job right after school should not allow general disclaimers like this to get them down.  In fact, they should see it as a cue to look for something better, perhaps in another job sector. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. If you are part of the Matric Class of 2021, here are four job sectors where there are always potential for employment:     Sales representatives are responsible for the identification of potential customers and for selling products for numerous companies and brands.  Companies normally offer fixed basic salaries, but your true success lies in the commission you receive on the sales you make.  This means that your salary can either be low or high, depending on how much work you put in.  When applying for a position in this job sector, keep in mind that you might need a driver’s licence and your own vehicle. The requirements for a position in the customer service sector usually include a completed national senior certificate and basic telephone etiquette.  These positions normally operate on a shift-basis, as many companies serve both local and international clients which operate in different time zones, or customers who require support 24/7.  Companies and recruitment agencies are always on the lookout for candidates for this job sector and platforms like Gumtree always have various updated job entries to scroll through while on the hunt for a job. READ: Matric results 2021: Inmates achieve 89% pass rate, 77 Bachelor passes There is always a need for people who can work with people.  Much like customer service, working in the retail sector also has to do with interacting with customers, but in this case, it is physical interaction by greeting and assisting customers in store.  This position requires you to be on your feet almost all the time and you might have to work on weekends or public holidays too, as that is when most people have time to shop. Internships apply to any sector and it is where an employer offers a potential employee (called an intern) the opportunity to work for a company for a specific period of time.  These kinds of jobs usually offer individuals an easy way to gain experience in a particular field of interest, but the perk is that it could lead to permanent employment.  Keep in mind, though that internships come in different forms. Some may have a fixed remuneration, while others may expect you to work for nothing in exchange for the experience you gain.  Therefore, make sure that the position suits your personal requirements before you make any commitments. Whether you’re looking for a job that will help you save money for studies, a job that will give you some experience in your field of interest or just something that will keep you busy during your gap year, these job sectors might steer you in the right direction of landing a job real quick.