The SABC has released more information on the anticipated talk show that will be panelled by the uThando Nes’thembu sister wives.  Earlier this month, the state broadcaster announced that Musa Mseleku’s wives – MaCele, MaYeni (Nokukhanya Mseleku), Makhumalo (Thobile Mseleku) and MaNgwabe (Mbali Mseleku) – will lead a new female-led show called Igumbi Lamakhosikazi.  The 13-part reality talk show series will give the audience different perspectives about relationship issues affecting South Africans. The structure of the show will see the four wives sharing opinions on the topic at hand, unpacking what it means to them and how they handle the issues.  The topics will range from polygamy, the in-laws, intimacy, sex in the marriage, finances, gender-based violence, and parenting. Most of these topics are something fans of uThando Nes’thembu would have watched on their reality show. So it would be interesting to see the women expand the conversation in a different environment.  Much of South Africa would also like to know about the dynamics of polygamy, how they have made it work, despite the continuous tensions among the wives.  On the fifth season of uThando Nes’thembu last year, it looked like MaNgwabe and MaYeni won their fight for Musa not to take in a fifth wife. The group of women were already at loggerheads with certain issues that were causing them to drift apart and adding another woman to the household was going to cause more conflict, they argued.  One big family rift was over Musa’s persistence to marry a fifth wife, especially since this current girlfriend had the last name of Khumalo. MaYeni and MaNgwabe have been against Musa’s need for a fifth wife. MaNgwabe said her biggest concern about Musa adding another wife came from the fact that Musa had promised that she would be the last wife to join the marriage when he married her. MaKhumalo has joined season two of Real Housewives of Durban, and she said her decision to join the showwas inspired by her desire to bring out her individuality more. Igumbi Lamakhosikazi will start on 7 February 2022 on SABC1.  Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele