Mamelodi Sundowns are said to be willing to go all out to help their former player, Khayelihle Shozi, who was reported to be missing and mentally disturbed after being seen on the streets eating from bins. ALSO READ: Sundowns defender attracts interest from EuropeAccording to a source, Shozi, who came through the Sundowns development ranks with the likes of Percy Tau was said to be the next big South African star, and he was also likened to former Bafana Bafana midfielder Teko Modise.This past week,  Shozi was apparently found eating from dustbins and his family reported him missing. “Everyone is hurt by what happened to that boy, it’s just unthinkable and unexpected. No one can really explain what happened to him. We spoke to the family, and they also don’t know what happened. They are as shocked as we are because their son was doing very well and his future was bright, it’s very sad. But, the club is going to help. Everyone is touched because they know him from his early days when he had a very bright future. There was a lot of potential and now it’s a pity he is going through that mental state,” said the source.Shozi is said to be suffering from depression It has emerged that Shozi may be suffering from depression or some other form of mental illness. Shozi, who is a product of the Sundowns development academy, trended on social media last week after he had gone missing. He had been released at Pretoria Callies when he went missing.  Some reported to have seen him roaming the streets wearing his soccer boots. He was eventually found last weekend and sent home to KwaZulu-Natal.  “Some have suggested witchcraft as the reason for what happened because apparently he had a run-in with a teammate and they threatened each other.  “But I believe the issue has to do with depression brought on by the lack of progress in his career.  “You must remember that at some point he was tipped to be the next Teko Modise but things never really worked out for him the way it was expected,” said an informed source.