Marcel Theunissen will start at flank in one of three changes to the Western Province forward pack for their Currie Cup clash with the Bulls at DHL Stadium on Wednesday. There are no changes to the backline that started in the 48-36 victory against the Lions, as Western Province look to make it back-to-back home wins to start the campaign. The North-South showdown kicks off at 8pm on Wednesday, with 2,000 fully vaccinated spectators allowed to attend according to government COVID-19 protocols. Tickets are available now from the Ticketpro website. Theunissen is joined in the loose trio by skipper Nama Xaba and Keke Morabe, who makes his first start at No 8, with Simon Miller shifting to the second row. ALSO READ: Well-travelled Samoan flank OJ Noa to make Sharks debut Seasoned prop Ali Vermaak makes his return from injury on the replacements bench, with tighthead prop Corne Weilbach, hooker Jacques Goosen and loose forwards Jarrod Taylor and Roelof Smit (currently on trial, after previously playing for the Bulls and Lions) all in line to make their senior Western Province debut should they take the field. Smit is a one-cap Springbok, while youngsters Weilbach, Taylor and Goosen are all part of Saru’s Elite Player Development System via the SA Schools and Junior Springbok programmes. WP coach Jerome Paarwater said that his team is determined to back-up their opening win with an improved performance in this midweek clash. “It has been a very short turnaround between games, but our combinations should be a little more settled, so hopefully we will see more cohesion. “We have managed to keep some continuity in selection and the players are all keen to reward the fans who come out to support us with some good rugby,” he said. Western Province: Tristan Leyds, Angelo Davids, Leolin Zas, Cornel Smit, Paschal Ekeji, Tim Swiel, Thomas Bursey, Keke Morabe, Marcel Theunissen, Nama Xaba (capt), Simon Miller, Connor Evans, Lee-Marvin Mazibuko, Chad Solomon, Kwenzo Blose. Bench: Jacques Goosen, Ali Vermaak, Corne Weilbach, Jarrod Taylor, Roelof Smit, Godlen Masimla, Chris Schreuder, Mnombo Zwelendaba