Police minister Bheki Cele has endorsed ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa for a second term as the party’s leader. He is not the first nor the only one to rally behind the ruling president, with party members in Limpopo also pledging their allegiance.   At an ANC conference held on Tuesday in Ga-Nkoana, Sekhukhune, members of the party from the region called for him to reign for a second term.  ALSO READ: Ramaphosa ‘dead cert’ for second term Led by Sekhukhune party regional secretary Mathope Tala, the ANC members and supporters were heard repeatedly chanting “Ramaphosa for a second term” during the assembly. The event was part of a series of build-up activities leading up to the party’s 110th birthday celebration, which is being held   In an interview with EWN on Saturday, Cele was asked whether he had any alternative president he supported to lead the ANC  His response was: “I have nothing that can tell me or that I can even think of changing.  “If you come to me yesterday, come to me today, come to me tomorrow and ask me who’d be president, that would be Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa.” ANC members in Limpopo are going to campaign for President Cyril Ramaphosa to take the ANC presidency second term, said Limpopo ANC chairperson Stanley Mathabatha at the party’s birthday celebration. “Our support has nothing to do with the fact that Limpopo is the ancestral home of the president.  ALSO READ: MKMVA members picket outside ANC birthday bash venue “Some are saying we are jumping the gun… but ours is a political and organisational stance and support for the project of uniting and renewing the ANC,” Mathabatha said to a round of applause. He added that Ramaphosa was “doing a good job”, and that he should be allowed to continue as president. “We believe Cyril Ramaphosa is a man committed to achieving our organisation’d mission. That is why Limpopo says: Cyril Ramaphosa for second the term.  “There is nothing wrong when a man is doing his job and we praise him, there is nothing wrong when we say your work impresses us, so stay there, comrade president.  “When the time comes, will campaign for Ramaphosa. We haven’t started campaigning yet,” Mathabatha added. The ANC elective conference will be taking place in December. NOW READ: Dear ANC, what is there to celebrate?