The Top Employers Institute has announced that Pfizer South Africa is one of the best places to work in the country this year. CEO David Plink said the past two years have been “demanding”, impacting organisations across the world. “Pfizer South Africa has continued to show that it prioritises maintaining excellent people practices in the workplace,” said Plink. “They continue to meet the challenges of the changing world of work while working tirelessly to make a positive impact on the lives of their workforce.  ALSO READ: Over 86,000 Pfizer vaccines administered to tweens and teens in SA “We are pleased to celebrate and applaud the organisations that have been certified as Top Employers in their respective countries this year,” he added.  Being certified as a Top Employer showcases an organisation’s dedication to a better work and workplace excellence through HR policies and people practices, according to the Top Employers Institute programme, which certifies organisations based on the participation and results of their Human Resources Best Practices Survey.  The survey covers six HR domains, consisting of 20 topics including People Strategy, Work Environment, Talent Acquisition, Learning, Well-being, Diversity and Inclusion, and more.   “We are delighted to be recognised by the Top Employers Institute as a top employer in South Africa,” Pfizer South Africa country manager and Sub-Saharan Africa cluster lead Rhulani Nhlaniki said. Nhlaniki said the accolade is a testament to the deliberate efforts over the years to evolve our culture and working environment, where all colleagues in the organisation are heard, seen, and cared for.  “Pfizer has and continues to be very intentional about creating an environment in which our employees can thrive while feeling valued,” she said.  Last year, Samsung South Africa walked away with the prestigious Top Employer 2021 Certification.  The multinational electronics corporation had an impressive seven-year run as one of the country’s most successful employers before Pfizer knocked them out of the running. The Top Employers Institute had named South African Samsung division as a company that created the best employment conditions for its staff.  Samsung was certified for its dedication to providing the very best working environment for employees through progressive “people-first” HR practices. NOW READ: Covid benefit fraud: Employers tried to pocket R228 million, says Nxesi