Porsche has taken the wraps off of its second special edition model in less than 48 hours, this time based on the 911 Targa as opposed to the Cayenne. Commemorating 50 years of Porsche Design this year, the Edition 50Y Porsche Design is based on the GTS version of the Targa, a bodystyle Porsche introduced 50 years ago as alternative to the coupe and cabriolet. The second special Targa model after the Heritage Design Edition in 2020, the Edition 50Y’s, whose production run will be limited 750 examples, receives bespoke touches in the form of a non-metallic black exterior paint hue, a satin platinum targa roof-bar, 20-inch at the front and 21-inch at the rear alloy wheels derived from the 911 Turbo, also with a platinum finish, and black calipers. Rounding the exterior off is the Sport Design Package, a black 911 badge on the engine cover, Platinum Porsche Design graphics at the base of the doors and a Porsche Design 50th Anniversary Edition badge on the slats of the rear grille. ALSO READ: Limited-run Porsche Cayenne Platinum Edition priced Inside, the Edition 50Y gets the adaptive electric sport seats finished in sport-tex black leather with Slate Grey stitching as well as a black/Cool Grey check pattern, the Sports Chrono Package, a silver 911 badge with build number on the dashboard, and the GT Sport steering wheel resplendent with Slate Grey 12 o’clock marking. In addition to the Slate Grey seatbelts, the Edition 50Y boasts Porsche Design 50th Anniversary branded brushed aluminium door sills and the signature of founder Ferdinand Porsche on the centre armrest lid. Residing at the rear, motivation is unchanged from the standard GTS. That means outputs of 353kW/570Nm from the 3.0-litre turbocharged flat-six, channelled to all four wheels via a seven-speed manual or eight-speed PDK gearbox. Like the regular GTS, the Edition 50Y is equipped as standard with the sport exhaust system and the Porsche Active Suspension Management. Going on sale from April, the the PDK only Edition 50Y has been confirmed for South Africa with the R2 949 000 asking price not only including a three-year/100 000 km Driveplan, but also the option of a remastered version of the Chronograph I watch introduced in 1972.