After making multiple headlines for scandals surrounding their union, dancer and musician Babes Wodumo seems to be dealing with some trouble which could potentially be a threat to her marriage with DJ and music producer, Manda ‘Mampintsha’ Maphumulo. Not long ago, the West Ink vocalist took to social media, in what seemed to be a publicity stunt, to accuse Venda pop star Makhadzi for going after Mampintsha while working on music together during a studio session. Appalled by the allegations, Makhadzi quickly took to social media to defend herself, deny all allegations and expose the way in which Babes behaved throughout the recording session.  The Ganama star also revealed that Mampintsha was the one making advances on her, but she ignored them out of respect for Babes and her own relationship.  “You have problems with your man and you were beating him up in front of us. You fought with him for just looking at me. I kept this as a secret because I respect you, but since you are looking for attention you come up with an allegation that I’m sleeping with your man.  “I have my own boyfriend and I am not cheap like that. So please respect me. Don’t go around tarnishing my name,” said Makhadzi. ALSO READ: Mampintsha who? Makhadzi shares on-stage kiss with Master KG Makhadzi was the least of the Wololo star’s problems, as a TikTok user named Mamesh has shared a video on her page revealing that she is allegedly Mampintsha’s other wife who has been kept a secret for all these years.  “Hi Babes Wodumo, you call yourself MaSimelane, well I am MaMaphumulo, the real one. Please leave Makhadzi alone. “I am Mampintsha’s real wife. Just because you guys are married, that has nothing to do with me. I am also married. I don’t know if you know this but he and I are married,” said the TikToker.    Mamesh also addressed the issue of Babes offending Mampintsha’s mother on public platforms, and asked her to stop doing it because Mampintsha’s mother is also her mother-in law. “Secondly, stop going around and dissing Mampintsha’s mother, she is my mother-in-law. Just because they are hiding me you think I will remain quiet. I am tired of you, you think because people are scared of you, I will also be afraid of you,” said Mamesh.  Babes and Mampintsha have not yet made any comments on these allegations.