Ever since Amapiano musician Lady Du (Dudu Ngwenya) confirmed her split from former Isibaya actor Andile Mxakaza, he seems to be spiralling.  A series of screen recordings of videos that the actor posted have been circulating on social media. In one, he can be seen poking fun at people who are interested in the breakdown of their marriage and in another video, he can be seen blaming witchcraft for the end of their relationship.  “There are people here who are busy bothering her. They have been bothering her for a long time and I am getting tired of it now.”  “Women practice witchcraft and I know, I don’t want you guys calling me names, you see? I know the person who is doing this and they’re going to do it again, so now I am warning that person for the last time. Stop what you are doing! You’re bothering her and punishing her for being romantically involved with me. You’re practising witchcraft! We don’t sleep at night!” He went on to state that they tried praying to combat this to no avail and claimed that this was affecting Lady Du‘s life as she often had to miss shoots because of what is allegedly being done to her.  If you want to continue bewitching someone, target me, not her.  “Stop this, she has a good heart and I will never love anyone as much as I love her,” he said before stating that she was the woman for him because one of the many things she does for him is giving his parents money.  His video rant comes after she confirmed their break up on Instagram over the weekend.  “I am not one for gossip, it bores me. This is from my heart, We did not break up, we followed our hearts and that meant separating before things went south,” she wrote.  “I’ve had numerous attacks from people I didn’t even know, people making me uncomfortable because of culture, people attacking my character, scratching my cars. So I decided it’s best I follow my heart and leave my relationship,” added Lady Du.  She went on to claim that she and Andile realised that they both want different things and as such, they are both happy with their decision to break up.  “We ask that you kindly respect it. It hasn’t affected any of us. Let it not affect you or make you sad. It’s life. We all need to live honest lives.” “I am sorry you never found peace in our relationship, I am proud [of]  how you stood your ground and never gave up even when you were attacked by people. I want you to find true happiness and I am happy with the decision you made, you [are] way stronger [than] you look,” said Andile in a caption, to which Lady Du responded: “I wish you nothing but the best skeem sam, may God continue to bless your gentle heart, may he be with you in your journey of life. I thank you for the role you played in my life.”  According to a report by Drum, they dated each other over a decade ago and went their separate ways only to reconnect again in early 2020. The pair have been engaged since Andile proposed to her in August 2020. He proposed just three months after they started dating.