Whether you’re planning to cook up a storm or just stay above water with easy, pre-packaged meals, these items will help you keep your kitchen cosy, comfortable and clutter-free in 2022, says model, influencer, and television presenter Minki van der Westhuizen. According to the television personality and model, a set of Victorinox knives are non-negotiable for 2022. “I cannot cook without it,” she says. “A sharp knife is absolutely vital for me.” A coffee machine is another big must-have for Minki. “I have a SMEG bean to cup coffee machine which I am crazy about.” The supermodel, who is also a mom of three, says that she loves a cup of coffee in the morning, which is why a coffee machine in the kitchen will definitely always be on the list when it comes to her kitchen must-haves. SMEG’s bean to cup coffee machines come in various shapes and sizes, with prices ranging from around R14 999 and up.   READ: Minki, Melinda, Leandie having a ‘roaring’ good time Minki says a non-stick pan is also something she loves having in the kitchen. She seems to be quite the SMEG fan, with her non-stick pan being from the brand’s latest range. She compares it to one’s skin, saying that “if you have a good basis to work with, it is impossible for your food to fail.” Minki says if you can afford it, a microwave is a great item to have in your kitchen. “It helps me a great deal,” she says, “especially because I have small children.” She adds that it just speeds up the cooking process, which means you get to spend more quality time with your family instead of standing in front of the stove all the time. One thing Minki claims to use in the kitchen on a daily basis, is her salad spinner – a must-have for rinsing and drying fresh salad leaves or even fresh herbs which she enjoys cooking with. You can find a rather affordable one at HOME etc. or invest in a sturdier one from West Pack Lifestyle or takealot.com.  Or, if you’re able to splurge on a two-in-one salad spinner and colander fit for a truly fashionable kitchen, check out the one from Yuppiechef.