South African media personality Somizi Mhlongo’s love life seems to be back on track and in full swing as he was spotted living it up in a club with his alleged new bae.  In the last few months, the former Idols SA judge has been spotted on multiple occasions in public with men that fans have speculated to be his new partners, but the 49-year-old fashionista has denied all the dating rumours.  On Monday evening, however, a popular gossip and entertainment news Twitter account owned by Musa Khawula shared a new video of Somizi partying it up at Ayepyep lounge in Menlyn, Pretoria, and in the video he is seen dancing on the back of a gentleman named Lindile Mbadu. The two are seen having fun and dancing to the loud music playing in the background until the media personality notices that he is being recorded by a fan. Somizi then gets highly annoyed and asks the fan why he would record him while he is having fun.  According to Zalebs, Mhlongo and Mbadu were apparently spotted at Ayepyep lounge in Cape Town locking lips and being cozy while they were on vacation together.  That’s not all – Musa Khawula revealed on his entertainment news Twitter account that Mhlongo and Mbadu actually go way back as he is the ex-boyfriend of Alan Yandy Solomon, who is the best friend of Somizi’s estranged husband, Mohale Motaung.  Lindile and Alan attended Somizi and Mohale’s extravagant wedding that was held in 2020, and soon after the wedding, Lindile took to social media to admit to being a witness at the celebration.  The Dinner At Somizi’s host took to his Instagram page this morning to share a message with his fans and followers around the topic of haters and overcoming haters.  “Remember, there is someone out there who is mad that you are still standing. Who does not understand why you are still standing after everything that they tried to do to you.  “Keep standing. But more than anything, don’t stop protecting your space, praying for your peace, praying for your protection, because those Satans never sleep,” said Mhlongo.  He expected to return to his seat on the judging panel at Idols SA when the show returns to screens in a few weeks. His reality show Living the Dream With Somizi is also expected to return for a fifth season this year.