Actress Hanna Grobler (known for her roles in Getroud met Rugby, Platteland, Konfetti and more) took to Instagram this morning saying forty feels fantastic.  This follows a weekend of fun with celebrity friends including the likes of Leandie du Randt, Karlien van Jaarsveld, Anna van Jaarsveld, Christel van den Bergh, Jeanie Swiegelaar and more, all sharing in her Havana Nights themed birthday party. Celebrities and friends all travelled to Ballito for the celebration weekend at the Salt Rock Hotel Beach Resort in Ballito. The evening seems to have been one for the books, complete with colourful balloons and island vibe décor.  Of course, the partygoers were all dressed for the occasion too, with Hanna wearing an island-style palm print dress and husband Bok van Blerk matching with a floral Hawaiian-style shirt. Karlien van Jaarsveld and her sister-in-law, Anna van Jaarsveld (Bobby van Jaarsveld’s wife) both looked fit for the occasion, with Karlien posing in denim shorts coupled with a floral puff sleeved top, and Anna opting for a green and black off-shoulder animal print dress. They both rounded off their looks with heels. Says Karlien van Jaarsveld: “Hanna, you live that which most people only talk about. Thank you that you teach me about serving others.”  She shared a long tribute about her friend and then wished her a very happy 40th birthday. Leandie du Randt shared Karlien’s sentiment about their friend in an Instagram post, saying: “Look at how much we love you, my friend! @hannagrobler you change lives wherever you go. Happy birthday! So grateful for you and bless you with health, wealth and happiness!” Then she joked about the “Chickalitos” being reunited, and their pimp, Bok van Blerk (Hanna Grobler’s husband). Leandi du Randt and her boyfriend Stephan Neethling both wore matching black and white outfits with Cuban-style hats to the official party. Jeanie Swiegelaar went with a loose-fitting green dress and a Cuban hat, while Christel van den Bergh wore a puff-sleeved mini dress. The event probably also offered a much-needed break from reality for celebrity couple Hanna Grobler and Bok van Blerk, following his dad’s recent passing. READ: Bok van Blerk’s dad dies – “Nag, ou grote” In an Instagram post, Hanna wrote: “Grateful is an understatement…WOW 40 years! Thank you, Jesus that I am still here and thank you to everyone who loves me. It was so much fun. Thank you to everyone who sent me messages. I enjoyed my birthday.”