The return of Real Housewives of Durban has been a consistent talking point amongst viewers and there is one housewife who some fans have had enough of. Season two began streaming on Showmax last Friday and Nonku Williams’ drama from the previous season’s reunion was brought up once again.  Nonku and her mother, Queen, demanded that inhlawulo (damages) be paid for Nonku’s daughter by Ayanda Ncwane, as it was her late husband, Sifiso, who fathered Nonku’s child. Viewers were shocked by the request and wondered why Nonku didn’t go to Sifiso’s family to request the damages. Fellow housewives also felt uncomfortable with what Nonku and her mom did to Ayanda on the national stage. Nonku tried in the first episode to mend fences, essentially ignoring what happened.  ALSO READ: LaConco finally opens up about her marriage to Jacob Zuma During Nonku and Annie’s meet up, Ann made it clear that Nonku’s and her mom’s actions were hurtful. However, Nonku said the issue did not concern her.   Viewers were still upset with Nonku and her mom’s appearance as they were still demanding damages from Ayanda in the first episode.  Fans were also annoyed by the pair’s perceived victimisation. Nonku said none of the women called or checked up on her after the first season.  There were suggestions that Nonku’s actions on the show were purely for fame, for clout, or to stay relevant.  Nonku's mom is rude ey i don't know why she's on this show tbh ????????????????????????????????????????#RHOD pic.twitter.com/LVIRPGIMd0— P ???????? (@kaziii___m) January 29, 2022 This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. In Real Housewives of Durban episode, an emotional LaConco opened up about her relationship status after a barrage of questions from her fellow castmates and fans.  LaConco was known to have dated former President Jacob Zuma.  “The position I am in […] I found love and I stayed true to that love. Unfortunately, there were people who had an interest in that love and made it a public thing when it was not my intention,” she said to fellow housewife, Sorisha.