The Princess of Monaco, Princess Charlene celebrated her 44th birthday on Tuesday, and her foundation shared a birthday tribute for her. Taking to social media, the Princess Charlene Foundation South Africa posted a video on their private Instagram page to honour the princess and wish her a lovely birthday.  “Happy birthday, Princess Charlene! We honour you for how much you always give of yourself to change people’s lives around the world, your passion and dedication to saving and changing lives is truly an inspiration. “We trust this video of your journey thus far reminds you just how loved and appreciated you are,” said the foundation in the caption of their post.  The video shows a series of pictures throughout Charlene’s life, from when she was a baby with her siblings and her parents, right through to herself as a wife who is married to the Prince of Monaco, Prince Albert, and a mother to 6-year-old twins, Prince Jacques and Princess Gabriella. ALSO READ: Royal news: Charles and Harry having secret talks, Harry may attend Queen’s jubilee The video also shows pictures of the princess from the years when she used to be an Olympic swimmer. There are pictures of her posing with her Olympic team, as well as diving into swimming pools during competitions.  Pictures of Albert and Charlene are also featured from when they started dating when they were both former Olympic swimmers, right through to when they got married and had their children. The work done by the Princess Charlene Foundation South Africa is also depicted in the video, and Charlene as well as her teammates are spotted playing around swimming pools with the children of the foundation, teaching them some basic swimming survival lessons.  The 44-year-old former Olympic swimmer shared the video on her personal Instagram page as well.  Earlier this month, the Palace reported the 44-year-old mother of two was still months away from full recovery after being booked into a wellness facility outside of Monaco, shortly after making her way back home from being stuck in South Africa for just over six months.  “The princess is recuperating in a satisfactory and reassuring manner, although it may take a few more months before her health has reached a full recovery,” said the statement.