Heinz and Aletté Winckler’s daughter Alannah Elize Winckler just turned two on Monday and the family celebrated her big two Peppa Pig style. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The toddler, who has her own Instagram profile, clearly had a ball at her second birthday party, looking cute in a red and white dress matching her mother’s. InZain EventSions transformed the Wincklers’ garden into what they dubbed Peppa Paradise and Alannah’s grandmother added some impressive detail with a homemade Peppa Pig cake. Says mom Aletté Winckler: “In my day we were lucky if you had a home baked cake, a bowl of chips and a 2 litre Coke or Cream Soda.”  She says that children’s parties have a whole new level of excellence these days. According to the image stylist and co-author of her and her husband, Heinz’s new book on marriage, the events company went into the finest detail to make their daughter’s Peppa Pig birthday party as eventful and memorable as possible. This included special touches in the form of muddy puddles, rainy clouds, Mrs Duck’s Pond, Daddy Pig’s long grass and even Granny Pig’s fruit cups. READ: Heinz Winckler and wife Aletté talk marriage in new book The kiddies’ table was set with wooden toddler chairs around it, an elaborate floral centrepiece and the kids’ party packs were even in the shape of Peppa Pig’s house. Party snacks included popsicles, doughnuts, popcorn, marshmallows and more. “Who would have thought that kids’ parties can be so creative and fun,” says the mother of the birthday girl. “My little @allanah_elize_winckler is in her 7th heaven tonight and had the best day by far!” Amidst all the Peppa Pig party prep and immaculate detail, Aletté took a moment to mention, though, that if you can only have a homemade cake, a bowl of chips and a 2 litre Coke, all your child needs to know is that you celebrate and love them and that is enough.