One Hollywood couple break up we did not see coming is that of Jason Momoa and Lisa Bonet who recently announced that they are going their separate ways.  Viewed as one of the industry’s most loved and interesting celebrity couples, the couple released a joint statement on Instagram announcing their separation.  “We have all felt the squeeze and changes of these transformational times… A revolution is unfolding and our family is of no exception… feeling and growing from the seismic shifts occurring. And so we share our family news, that we are parting ways in marriage. “We share this not because we think it’s newsworthy, but so that as we go about our lives we may do so with dignity and honesty. “The love between us carries on, evolving in ways it wishes to be known and loved. We free each other to be who we are learning to become. Our devotion [is] unwavering to this sacred life and our children.  “Teaching our children what’s possible, living the prayer, may love prevail,” the statement read.   This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Jason and Lisa Bonet have been married for four years but have been together for 17 years. They have two children together, daughter Lola, 14, and son Nakoa-Wolf, 13.  Momoa’s career has sky-rocketed since he played Khal Drogo in Game of Thrones in 2010. He has since starred as leads in DC comics such as the Aquaman franchise, Justice League and Dune.  Bonet is known for her iconic role as Denise Huxtable in The Cosby Show. She was previously married to Lenny Kravitz and they have a daughter, actress Zoe Kravitz.  Contrary to societal norms, Lenny and Jason become good friends over the years and bonded over their shared love for Lisa Bonet and Zoe.  Fans of the former couple shared their dismay of the spilt on Twitter but there were people excited to see one of Hollywood’s biggest hunks become single again.  Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele