Model and influencer Ayanda Thabethe shocked her followers on Friday when she announced her pregnancy and confirmed that she was expecting her first child.  In the video, Ayanda is wearing a white dress with flowing trains behind it flying in the wind as she stands atop sand dunes.  Frank Ocean’s Godspeed is playing as scenes show her modelling before cradling her belly. A man’s hand featuring a gold ring later comes into frame and cups her tummy.  “More than my heart can hold. Greater than I deserve. Beyond everything I could ask for. An answer to a secret and nervous prayer. Finally, my forever has come,” wrote Ayanda in the caption under her video, which had amassed close to 70,000 views in one hour.  After a string of public relationships with other media personalities, Ayanda has kept her latest relationship all to herself.  Last July, she got fans all in a tizzy when she posted ambiguously about what life was like with her partner. Over a series of days, she tweeted things like: “When your partner starts talking in ‘we'” and “Spent the whole weekend indoors with my [love] and I’m convinced now more than ever … what a guy.”  She also shared some pictures to her Instagram stories showing the back of his head as the two were locked in an embrace but she has never confirmed who her partner is.  READ: ‘Uzalo’s’ Gugu Gumede expecting her first child She used to be married to television presenter Andile Ncube but the pair later got divorced.  She then dated musician Zulu Mkathini and was rumoured to be linked to businessman Papi Rapolai, a man who was also previously linked to Lerato Kganyago.  She was also rumoured to have dated Bafana Bafana player Bongani Khumalo. While she has not said who her partner is, Ayanda Thabethe has let it be known that she is very happy.  Fellow stars and influencers such as Kefilwe Mabote, Tshepi Vundla, Maps Maponyane, Mihlali Ndamase, Melody Molale, Melani Bala and Khutso Theledi all congratulated Ayanda in the comments under her video.  READ NEXT: Legacy’s Reandi shares her maternity bag checklist