Is foundation over? That’s what a new trick spotted on TikTok seems to suggest. Dubbed the rainbow contour, this latest makeup technique sculpts the face, achieving an (almost) natural glow without a single dab of foundation.  The method has gone viral in just a few days and already has millions of views on the social network. The dawning of a new year hasn’t changed anything in the habits of TikTok users, who are always on the lookout for revolutionary (or nearly revolutionary) new beauty tips for a more natural and less restrictive daily routine.  In these early days of 2022, ideas are emerging on ways to revolutionize makeup, and — why not — do away with certain products that are no longer the flavor of the month among users of the Chinese social network.  And foundation seems to be in the sights of some beauty buffs, who are coming up with all kinds of ways to find one — or several — replacements. ALSO READ: Daily hacks: Plant these vegetables ahead of winter This new craze has given rise to the rainbow contour, a contouring technique — 2022 style — that’s proving a hit on TikTok, despite some criticism relating to the appearance it gives users at some stages of the process.  This technique involves applying stripes of different products to the face — more precisely the forehead, the chin, the cheekbones and the nose — giving rise, as the name suggests, to a rainbow of colours.  Many users have tested, and approved it for themselves, including the highly influential Rikki (@rikkisandhuu), whose video has been viewed some 1.5 million times. The idea is simple. Here, you forget all kinds of foundation and powder and focus instead on concealer, blush, cream bronzers and the like. That’s the key.  Once you’ve selected these three products, all you have to do is draw thick stripes on different parts of your face, depending on your needs, in the order concealer-blush-bronzer, especially over the nose and cheeks.  Once you’ve done that, feel free to use a setting spray — although it’s not essential — and then blend everything in with a beauty blender. The result is amazing, and many TikTokers find this technique to be much quicker and easier than applying foundation.  The face is sculpted, with illuminating highlights — a perfect glow, in short — and without any imperfections. Now all you have to do is try it for yourself.