Now, Samsung is about to delight many content creators with the release of the Galaxy S21 FE 5G.  This much-anticipated device has been designed with fan-favourite features of the epic Galaxy S21 Series –  an epic 5G-enabled1, accessible smartphone with premium capabilities, performance and power that empower so you can shoot shooting incredibly realistic photos and videos with superior levels of detail. Equipped with a pro-grade setup, you can effortlessly edit, post, and share scroll-stopping content.  The Galaxy S21 FE 5G includes a 12MP Ultra Wide Camera, 12MP Wide-angle Camera, an 8MP Telephoto Camera and a must-try 32MP Selfie Camera.  This impressive device is also IP68 Rated, which means it keeps your phone safe from slashes, drips, and up to 1.5 meters of water for around 30 minutes2.  Get ready for a 6.4-inch FHD+ Dynamic AMOLED 2X Display3, available in Olive, Lavender, White or Graphite, all of which include a stylish haze finish.  The incredible content-creators dream is also made even better with a fast application processor and ultra-crisp, high-quality graphics and picture quality. And the enjoyment is a non-stop adventure with long-lasting batteries4. The Galaxy S21 FE 5G is available nationwide, through network operators and retailers in-store and online at a recommended retail price of R14,9995.  Those who choose to buy this much-anticipated device can take advantage of an amazing launch offer, including a Free Galaxy Tab A7, Lite WiFi, as well as the option to get the peace of mind of Samsung Care+ for a once-off fee of R4996.  For more info on the Galaxy S21 FE 5G, click here 15G speeds vary and require optimal network and connection (factors include frequency, bandwidth, congestion); see carrier for availability. 2Galaxy S21 FE 5G is rated as IP68. Based on test conditions for submersion in up to 1.5 meters of freshwater for up to 30 minutes. Not advised for beach or pool use.3Measured diagonally, Galaxy S21 FE 5G’s screen size is 6.4-inch in the full rectangle and 6.3-inch with accounting for the rounded corners; actual viewable area is less due to the rounded corners and camera hole 4Typical value tested under third-party laboratory condition. Typical value is the estimated average value considering the deviation in battery capacity among the battery samples tested under IEC 61960 standard. Rated (minimum) capacity is 4,370mAh for Galaxy S21 FE. Actual battery life may vary depending on network environment, usage patterns and other factors. 5Price may vary per retailer. 6T’s & C’s apply. Care+ to be activated within 30 days of purchase on https://www.samsung.com/za/offer/samsung-care-plus/. Care Plus promotion valid until 31 March 2022. Screen protection is valid for one incident for the repair of damaged screen within a 12-month period. A repair fee of R999 will be payable per claim. Image simulated. Colour may vary depending on network operator.