Returning Springbok captain and recently named SA Rugby Player of the Year Siya Kolisi is set to spearhead the Sharks challenge in their United Rugby Championship clash against his former team, the Stormers, in Durban on Saturday (kickoff 5:05pm). Kolisi and fellow Bok teammate Bongi Mbonambi return to the already international laden Sharks team and will add even more firepower for a tough encounter against the Stormers. “We are playing a tough opposition this week, I thought the Stormers played very well against the Bulls last week in a tight game,” said Kolisi. “So we are looking forward to the match this weekend, it’s going to be tight. The log is very tight at the moment, so it is an important match.” This weekend’s clash is only Kolisi’s second in the URC for the Sharks, but he is happy with the progress of the team so far, but was also quick to admit that all of the SA teams are improving and adapting to the new competition. “We are improving every week and we always want to get better. But we as South African teams are all getting better. It is a different challenge playing in Europe, but we have had to change from the way we used to play,” said Kolisi. “We have had to kick a bit more and make more tackles. Generally the team that has less ball is winning the game now, whereas we used to think we must run everything. “We have had to change and find a way to play Test match rugby every week, and this is good for us at local level because now when we get to the Springboks we know what to expect.” The Stormers have also named a strong squad for the game, however they will have to get over two injury blows with Salmaan Moerat and Evan Roos ruled out. However they have able replacements in Adre Smith and Hacjivah Dayimani who will be chomping at the bit to get a valuable start and they will be looking to impress against the Sharks. Former Blitzboks star Angelo Davids has also been drafted into the Stormers starting line-up for his first URC start and he will be an exciting feature out wide, facing off against Springbok star Makazole Mapimpi.