The Stormers are aiming to string a good run of results together and will be targeting a second win in a row when they face the Sharks in their United Rugby Championship derby in Durban on Saturday. The Stormers have yet to claim two wins in a row in the competition so far and are hoping to back up their impressive come from behind win over the Bulls this past weekend. “It is quite important that we back ourselves up with a good performance like we had on Saturday and make sure it’s not a once off one. So for us it’s building on that performance and improving on the small things as a team,” explained Stormers assistant coach Norman Laker. “It’s always nice to go up to Pretoria and get a win there, so we are extremely happy but there is still a lot of room for improvement. “We are now focussing on this coming weekend, it is an important game against the Sharks. They are a very good team with a lot of Springboks, but we are looking forward to the clash in Durban.” ALSO READ: Lions stick to basics ahead of URC battle against the Bulls The Stormers have struggled for home form in recent times, but have found good success on the road, having picked up two away wins and an away draw in the URC so far, so will not be daunted by taking the Sharks on at their home stadium. “It’s quite funny because the Cape Town Stadium seems to have a bit of a curse on us at the moment but on the road we are doing well. The team is bonding quite nicely on the away trips and I think it’s going to be an enjoyable trip,” said Laker. With difficult weather forecast for the weekend’s clash the Stormers are expecting a tight low scoring match and are preparing as best they can for the tricky conditions they could be facing in the game. “Going to Durban the Sharks have some phenomenal players, some game breakers, so it is not necessarily going to be a low scoring game. But with the weather I don’t think it is going to be a high scoring one,” said Laker. “The weather might be a bit slippery but we have some good plans in place, so we are confident.”