Media personality Unathi Nkayi has finally commented on news regarding her departure from the Idols SA judging chair.  On Friday, DStv confirmed that they would be “shaking things up” for the upcoming 18th season of Mzansi’s popular singing competition Idols South Africa (Idols SA). DStv made the announcement on Friday afternoon, and said they are taking a “fresh approach to the judging panel to retain audiences to stay competitive in the Sunday night timeslot.” Audiences have missed former judge Somizi Mhlongo after he left the show due to focus on dealing with the abuse allegations levelled against him by his estranged husband Mohale Motaung last year. It was said by fans of Idols SA that season 17 was missing something after Somizi left, resulting in some losing interest. Mzansi Magic and M-Net thanked Randall and Unathi for their time on the show. Randall had been on the show since season one and Unathi had been part of the Idols SA family for 10 seasons. “We salute these great icons of South African entertainment and thank them both for great innings on Idols. Randall and Unathi have demonstrated high levels of professionalism and made an impact on the South African entertainment scene that will continue to be felt for some time to come.  “We wish them well in their endeavours,” said Shirley Adonisi, channel director: local entertainment channels at M-Net in a statement. Season 18 is scheduled for sometime this year and the new judging panel will be announced in due course, M-Net concluded. After reports by various tabloids, speculation was rife that Unathi was let go from Idols SA a result of the recent drama in her life stemming from her unceremonious exit from Kaya FM.  Despite this, Unathi was nothing but gracious in a recent social media post regarding this milestone in her life. Read Unathi Nkayi’s full statement on her Idols exit below: “Thank you. Oh man! Thank you for your love South Africa and our beautiful continent of Africa. Please allow me to honour you. You have been kind, loving and deeply invested. Truly the real energy and heartbeat of a wonderful wave of hope and dreams coming true on Idols and as you do that, you have made my dreams come true too. Thank you. To every contestant who stood in front of us. From the ones brave enough to share with us their hopes. I don’t take lightly the act of doing that for the world to see. An honour I will always hold. Thank you for trusting me as one of your judges. To those who unleashed a new level of my tears, heavily pregnant with Baby Idols garnering for Wooden Mic, thank you for the laughter and joy. I can never thank you enough Anneke, for making that call asking me to join the Idols family. Gav and Prozza thank you for trusting me with such a great responsibility. One that would form part of the narrative and soundtrack of our souls as a people. You changed my life and that of my family. To Multichoice, how humbling that you continue to make every boy and girl believe in themselves no matter which corner they come from, including me. To every special being who has given to the brilliance of the show. . It has been a true honour being part of the family. And to the new members of our family. Good luck.   I Love You Your Village Girl Who Found Gold” Click here to read Unathi’s full post.