Pressed for time? Consumers seem to be turning to technology left, right and centre to save time on a daily basis. When it comes to time-saving technology, consumers look for products that ensure convenience and efficiency, both in their personal lives and in their homes. Product Manager at CBI-electric: low voltage, Larry Barnes says there are certain Internet of Things (IoT) trends that consumers should keep in mind when it comes to home automation in 2022. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. When in the market for a home, people tend to look for properties that are already kitted out with solar panels, solar geysers and more which can be combined with smart products for hassle-free power saving and off-the-grid convenience. It might be a hefty initial investment, but the system pays for itself within the first few years and maintenance requirements are very low. Smart devices like plugs, isolators and controllers can also help direct limited power resources to where they are most needed. With South Africa’s many sunny days, it makes sense to invest in solar power for your home. Barnes suggests that you combine it with a smart isolator and controller to maximise energy savings with a customised schedule. READ: Minki van der Westhuizen’s five kitchen must-haves for 2022 If you come home late at night often, streamlining your home security system could help you schedule your porch lights to switch on in time for your arrival, preventing you from having to fiddle for the right keys in the dark. With security being a key concern for many in South Africa, upgrading your home security by adding automated lighting and sensors that can be activated remotely and scheduled according to your lifestyle and habits, can only make things easier. “Smart security is a property upgrade that gives you peace of mind so that you can relax and focus on what’s most important to you,” says Barnes. Customisation of your environment is something many people find important these days, which is why smart homes are on the rise. That’s also why, ideally, a smart home’s smart infrastructure should be integrated and controlled from one single app. Tailor your smart home in such a way that it fits your family’s needs. Barnes also says: “Don’t split your attention across multiple operating systems. Look for seamless integration which reduces stress and improves control.” Portability and mobility are two very important factors to consider when setting up a smart home. You need to be able to move it with you if you need to change homes, which is why you need to work cleverly when you install smart features. Keep the old infrastructure that you’re replacing so that you can replace it when you leave. Why leave technology, which you can still use elsewhere, behind? Smart plugs are very useful for this, as they are easy to install and work with existing systems. “Smart plugs can be used to turn any appliance into a smart device,” says Barnes. “It gives you scheduling ability and remote access.” It also helps when you leave town for a few days and forgot to switch off the geyser. You can then simply reach for your phone, navigate to the smart home app and switch it off remotely. Connectivity is becoming more and more seamless, and most people have started to expect some time-saving convenience no matter where they are. Smart technology has become part of our lives and will continue to become even more integrated in our daily lives. It is all about making life easier, which is why home automation also forms part of it. When you design a smart home, you need to think carefully about what is most important to you – whether it’s smart lighting, entertainment, cleaning or convenience – and then prioritise accordingly. IoT provides you with the opportunity to exercise complete creative control when it comes to your home and what works for you.   Moving with the times has become unavoidable and rather exciting, to say the least. Whether you’re building or buying a new home, or transforming your current home into a smart home, these Internet of Things trends are clearly here to stay and worth keeping in mind. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.