Radio host, DJ and reality TV star Dineo Ranaka’s suspension at Metro FM might not have been about her participation in the viral Umlando dance challenge.  It was previously reported that Dineo was suspended for her participation in the dance challenge, which did not please senior management at the SABC radio station. Dineo recorded her own attempt at the challenge in the Metro FM studios where she works as a host of the daytime show, The Bridge, and the station viewed her actions as misconduct, as she danced on top of the office furniture.  However, Sunday World reported that her suspension wasn’t about her participation but rather due to her refusing to apologise for dancing on top of the expensive studio equipment.  The publication cited a source, a Metro FM employee, who said Dineo’s actions caught the attention of station manager Kina Nhlengethwa.  According to the employee, Nhlengethwa wanted Dineo to apologise for her “ill-discipline,” but The Bridge host did not want to.  “Apparently her argument was that she could not have damaged the mixer because she was dancing only with her socks on her feet and not with her shoes on.” “This created an impression that she was not remorseful and was defiant,” said the employee.  Because of this, the employee believes this could result in Dineo being axed.  The Citizen reached out to the Metro FM communications team for comment, who said the SABC would be able to assist.  At the time of writing The Citizen was still waiting for a response.  On Sunday, Dineo tagged Metro FM on her Instagram post about a grateful mindset even during difficult times.  “I say this all the time on my radio show on @metrofmsa … Gratitude on its own has healing power! Instant healing power! So even in the biggest of messes, find the smallest thing to be grateful for and see your world change. It first changes inwardly, then it will quickly begin to change outwardly. Love and light to the [faint hearted].  The Ranakas star seems unfazed with the discord, as she posted another Umlando video, this time with her family at her home.