Simon Harmer will return to the Proteas Test set-up for the outbound tour to New Zealand, more than six years after the 32-year-old player last turned out for the national team. The last time the off-spinner appeared for the Proteas was against India in November 2015. He was set to be joined by Lutho Sipamla, Cricket SA revealed on Wedneesday, in a squad of 17 that departs for the two-match series next month. In a move to minimise Covid-19 risk, both fixtures, which will form part of the new cycle of the ICC World Test Championship, will now take place at Hagley Oval in Christchurch. ALSO READ: Cricket award winners Malan, Lee pick their best knocks of 2021 Harmer returns due to the absence of George Linde, who is not available because he is getting married. Prenelan Subrayen is also not available for selection, due to a groin injury, though CSA said he was making good progress in his rehabilitation. Harmer made a big splash by taking seven wickets on Test debut against the West Indies in January 2015 in Cape Town, and he went on to play four more matches, returning 20 wickets in eight innings at an average of 29.40. Representing the Titans this season, he holds second place in the CSA 4-Day Domestic Series’ top wicket takers log, behind the Lions’ Duanne Olivier (28 wickets), with 27 wickets in eight innings at an average of 21.40. ALSO READ: SA juniors gear up for strong England side at U-19 World Cup Olivier’s Lions teammate, Sipamla, has been making his own 4-Day Domestic Series waves this season, returning 16 wickets in six innings, including best match bowling figures of 7/39 at an average of 16.56 and economy of 3.73. The 23-year-old made his Test debut against Sri Lanka in 2020 and has two Test matches under his belt with 10 wickets to his name. The remainder of the Dean Elgar-led squad holds no surprises and will see the welcome return of Kagiso Rabada, who was rested for the recently concluded ODI series against India. “Our Test team has been successful under the strong leadership of Dean Elgar and his deputy, Temba Bavuma, and have returned good results in recent times. We are confident that they will continue in the same vein as they head off to New Zealand,” said CSA convenor of selectors Victor Mpitsang. “The inclusions of Simon (Harmer) and Lutho (Sipamla) reaffirm our intentions as a (selection) panel to reward excellence on the field, and the pair have let their work speak on their behalf this past season.” Proteas Test squad Dean Elgar, Temba Bavuma, Sarel Erwee, Simon Harmer, Marco Jansen, Keshav Maharaj, Aiden Markram, Wiaan Mulder, Lungi Ngidi, Duanne Olivier, Keegan Petersen, Kagiso Rabada, Ryan Rickelton, Lutho Sipamla, Glenton Stuurman, Rassie van der Dussen, Kyle Verreynne