Legacy fans will be very happy to know that actress Reandi Grey and her husband, Dewald, have welcomed their second-born – a daughter – into the world earlier this morning, sharing a photo of a peaceful little Lente on Instagram. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Celebrity friends, including Reandi Grey’s television sisters from the telenovela, Legacy have been commenting on her post, congratulating her and her husband on the birth of their beautiful and perfect daughter. Mary-Anne Barlow, who fell pregnant around the same time as Reandi Grey and fellow actress and Price sister, Jay Anstey, said: “Oh beautiful little girl,” while Anstey added: “Welcome to the world beautiful soul!” Actress Simone Nortmann also commented, saying: “Welcome, most beautiful Lente! The world is your oyster!” READ: ‘Legacy’: Three ‘Price’ sisters all expecting girls Reandi’s eloquent post has already received over 6,000 likes, with the country joining the couple’s family and friends in welcoming the little girl into the world. In the photo, little Lente (which means Spring) covers her face with her hands, while wearing a cute floral beanie with her name written on it in rose gold. The pure perfection of a newborn baby is written all over the picture – her soft, unclipped little fingernails and cute, long fingers enough to make any mommy wish for just one more little munchkin. Reandi only added three hearts in her caption – a clear indication of the overwhelming joy and contentment that comes with motherhood. In the picture, little Lente looks peaceful in her cosy blanket – a special gift from Grey’s impressive baby shower which took place early in December. Reandi and her husband have another daughter, Heidi, who will be turning three in June this year. The couple announced Reandi’s second pregnancy with a bang, sharing a Huisgenoot cover featuring a two-year-old Heidi on her mother’s lap with the words: “Actress Reandi Grey is pregnant again!”