With less than two years having passed since the reveal of the T.50, Gordon Murray Automotive (GMA) has unveiled its second all-new model in the shape of the T.33. Positioned below the T.50 and its more hardcore spin-off, the track-only T.50s Niki Lauda, the T.33 incorporates a number of similarities from its siblings, but with a more comfort focused GT ethos. Designed “with the same standards as the T.50” according to GMA boss, South African-born former McLaren and Brabham Formula 1 designer Gordon Murray, the T.33 bears aesthetic resemblance to its siblings, but in a more compact shape. Made entirely out of carbon fibre with its chassis constructed out of carbon and aluminium, the T.33, which from certain angles resembles the Porsche 904, Ford GT40 from the rear as well as the ultra-rare Isdera Commendatore 112i, ticks the scales at a claimed 1 100 kg GMA claims is 300 kg lighter than a comparable supercar. Boasting a carbon fibre monocoque, carbon fibre panels and a completely bespoke suspension made out of aluminium, the T.33 said is to “rewrote the supercar rulebook” when it comes to aerodynamics. ALSO READ: Gordon Murray’s long awaited McLaren F1 follow-up revealed Doing without the Brabham BT46B inspired fan fitted to the T.50, the T.33 not only features the roof mounted air intake, but also so-called ground effect inlets underneath the floor, as well as a removal duct on the diffuser that is claimed to help aid efficiency by 30%. As part of the chassis, the T.33 has aluminium uprights and toe-links, and an Inclined Axis Shear Mounting that involves the rear suspension being mounted directly onto the transmission casing as a way of supporting torsional loads, the powertrain and reducing vibrations, according to GMA. Riding on specifically designed 19-inch at the front and 20-inch at the rear alloy wheels wrapped in Michelin Pilot Sport 4 S tyres, stopping power comes courtesy from a monobloc alloy six-piston caliper setup at the front and four at the rear. The carbon ceramic brakes themselves are bespoke to the T.33 and are made by Brembo with the front discs measuring 370 mm at the front and 340 mm at the rear. Inside, the T.33’s relation to the McLaren F1 is evident in the lack of modern-day mod-cons. Aimed squarely at driver involvement, the T.33 lacks an infotainment display and steering column stalks with the latter being augmented by switches on the steering wheel. It does however get an Apple CarPlay and Android Auto enabled sound system, an analogue rev-counter positioned between the two digital display screens, alloy switchgear for the air-conditioning and alloy pedals. According to GMA, “nothing is included unless it serves a purpose and if there was a danger it would dilute the driving experience, then it was simply deleted from the development programme”. Practicality comes in the shape of the boot at the front and dual side lockers that can swallow a combined 280-litres of luggage. At the back, the T.33 eschews the T.50’s gullwing engine cover, but keeps the normally aspirated Cosworth and GMA developed 3.9-litre V8.  Weighing 178 kg, the bent-eight, which can rev to a dizzy 11 100 rpm, has been retuned to produce 452 kW at a still heady 10 500 rpm and 451 Nm at 9 000 rpm.  GMA however claims that 75% of the mentioned power is available from as low as 2 500 rpm with 90% of the available torque from between 4 500 rpm and 10 500 rpm. An Xtrac-made six-speed manual gearbox, controlled either via a gear lever or paddles, is again the sole transmission option.  Tipping the scales at 82 kg, the ‘box boasts what GMA calls an Instantaneous Gearchange System when fitted with paddles, which, apart from being four kilograms lighter than the traditional manual, allows for continues and uninterrupted changes without the need for a dual-clutch arrangement or dog rings. Like the T.50, each T.33 will be custom made to suite buyer preference with production limited to 100 units at a reported starting price of £1.3-million (R28.4-million). Delivers are forecasted to commence in 2024 in both right-and-left-hand-drive markets.