South Africa’s television industry has always been good at making documentaries, and with a society as richly diverse as ours, there will never be a shortage of stories to tell. Streaming platform Showmax is counting on this as they back more South African projects and have a hand in bringing these stories, in various formats to the fore. Cue: Sex in Afrikaans, the latest project set to debut on the platform on Valentine’s Day, 14 February 2022. Ahead of the launch of Sex in Afrikaans, Showmax has released an official trailer that is set to tease audiences (pun intended) and give them an idea of what to expect.  In a trailer that features one-liners such as “Afrikaans people and the adult industry, they go hand in hand”, “The koeksister tannies order the big vibrators”, and “In South Africa, there are over 40,000 registered swingers”, viewers cannot be faulted for watching the trailer more than once.   The statements above were made by the owners of Adult World, Lollipop Lingerie, and a swingers club respectively.  “Sex in Afrikaans follows clinical psychologist Bradley R Daniels as he helps four Afrikaans couples and two singles to have shameless discussions about their sex lives for the first time publicly – and, in the process, discover that there is so much more fun to be had.” The series will also feature interviews with sex workers, adult shop owners, a unicorn, swingers, dominatrixes, a crossdresser, a dungeon master, people who dress up like babies, and others who prefer full-body latex suits.  Sex in Afrikaans promises to be an eye-opening tour of what your neighbours and co-workers possibly get up to behind closed doors.  “I learnt something new every day with Sex in Afrikaans,” said Bradley, who has a master’s degree in clinical psychology from New York University.  “It was a wonderful feeling to see how well what I’ve learnt from textbooks came together in practice. I think it’s the same in all communities that are conservative. Nobody really talks about sex; it’s a very sensitive topic. “Even people who consider themselves liberal struggle to talk about sex because many people do not have adequate language for sex and sexual practices. So a big part of the sexual health practitioner’s job is to give people the necessary language. We had a lot of fun, but I am also a serious academic person, so the show is also very educational and informative.” The groundbreaking, adults-only Showmax Original is being produced by media personality Rian van Heerden through Provoco.  “Sex in Afrikaans is one for the books,” said Rian.  “I would go so far as to say that this is going to be the most controversial local series South Africans have ever seen.”  In addition to everything mentioned above, viewers will also see humanoid sex dolls, mummification, hook suspension, and a pop-up sex shop in Parys.  They will also get to hear more of “the naked truth” about sex in Afrikaans from the likes of Loslyf magazine founder Joe Theron and Luvland owner Patrick Meyer.  Sex in Afrikaans premieres on Valentine’s Day, 14 February 2022, only on Showmax.