SOCCER 10 POOL OF THE DAYTuesday 4 January S10 V1 French champions Lille have had an indifferent season, struggling in defence of their Ligue 1 crown but reaching the knockout phase of the Champions League. They will be looking to start the new year in a winning ways at neighbours Lens in the French Cup. More details at www.soccer6.co.za M1 Asteras Tripolis vs OFI Crete: Asteras have won three of their last four games against the team from Crete. OFI had an upset win at second placed AEK Athens in their last away game.M2 Charlton Athletic vs Milton Keynes Dons: Charlton have lost their last two games and sit in the bottom half of League one. MK Dons have won successive away league matches and scored seven goals in the process.M3 Crewe Alexandra vs Rotherham United: Rotherham are at the top of League One while Crewe sit second from bottom but there is a chance for the home side to gain some confidence if they can get a result in this EFL Trophy game.M4 Harrogate Town vs Carlisle United: Harrogate have lost their past three home games in League Two and conceded eight goals. Carlisle’s last two matches were also away from home and they won both of them.M5 Hartlepool United vs Bolton Wanderers: Hartlepool’s last two home games were both goalless draws. Bolton have lost three on the trot.M6 Cliftonville vs Crusaders: Cliftonville have won three in a row and are two points off the top of the table in Northern Ireland. Crusaders’ last two games both ended goalless.M7 Forest Green Rovers vs Exeter City: Rovers have a seven point lead at the top of League One. Exeter have lost their last four matches.M8 Sutton United vs Colchester United: Sutton were 3-1 winners at Colchester in October and now host them in this EFL Trophy tie. Their return league meeting on Dec. 29 was postponed because of Covid cases.M9 Racing Lens vs Lille: Lens beat the French champions 1-0 in league action in September and now host them again in the French Cup.M10 Ponferradina vs Espanyol: Second division frontrunners Ponferradina host top flight opposition in Spain’s Copa del Rey. Last season both were in the second division and Espanyol beat them both home and away. Suggested permutation:R8.00 1 x 1,2 x 3 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1,2 x 3