This week’s episode of Date My Family followed 33-year-old Keith who was looking to “correct the mistakes of the past” by finding the right woman for him.  His first date was with Kabelo’s “family” who weren’t impressed by his appearance, namely his unkempt hair, and neither was the 23-year-old Kabelo who was looking for a good-looking man who smells great and will keep her grounded.  Keith didn’t hide his apprehension with the fact that her friends mentioned that she has never been in a serious relationship.The bachelor also passed some rude comments regarding Kabelo’s weight during his dairy session which Date My Family viewers were not too impressed by.  Viewers were also not impressed by Kabelo’s friends who were ultimately labelled “rude”. The second family represented a young lady named Mirochelle, who is also 23 years old.  She considers herself friendly and outgoing and said she was looking for someone who is the same.Despite having her own child who was just over one-year-old, Mirochelle said she did not want a partner who has a child as she thinks “baby mamas” can be “full of drama”. She quickly changed her tune upon finding out that Keith has a two-year-old child of his own.  Upon arriving at their home, Keith was welcomed by her mother and her friends from church.  Mirochelle was immediately impressed by Keith whom she said “can be her type”. Her mother also said she thinks he looks humble.  This “date” was incredibly awkward as Keith was intimidated by the fact that Mirochelle’s mother was present and this led to a number of silent moments where they all just sat there staring at each other. Another surprising fact about Mirochelle was her “preference” for not wanting to date coloured men, despite being coloured herself, as she felt black men were more responsible and knew how to treat women better.  The final family belonged to 31-year-old Cindy from Soweto who is looking for an honest and loving man.  Her friend Daniel was under the impression that Keith had a long night the evening before the date as he looked hungover and he had the same impression about them.  Cindy’s other friend also was not too impressed with Keith and said he should rather “try next door”. Date My Family viewers noticed a continuity issue with Keith’s hair that left them a little confused.  Both Cindy and Daniel found Keith’s eyes very sexy, but Daniel seemed more attracted to Keith than anyone on the show.The bachelor ended up choosing Mirochelle and based his decision on the fact that the other two women were not represented too well by their “families”. Mirochelle and her family were ecstatic that she was chosen and Keith was very happy with his decision, stating that she was very good looking.Viewers were not too impressed with the outfit she chose to wear on her date.  The pair both expressed their interest in continuing to see each other and even committed to a second date.Date My Family repeats on Tuesday (1 February) at 6pm and will be available on DStv Catch Up both on the decoder and the DStv Now app.