The drama has been full-on after only one episode of the new season of The Real Housewives of Durban and one of the housewives in the spotlight, Nonku Williams, has hit back at the criticism from viewers. The audience of the reality show on Showmax and Mzansi Magic have shared their annoyance at Nonku and her mother’s insistence that inhlawulo (damages) be paid for Nonku’s daughter by Ayanda Ncwane. Nonku shares her daughter with Ayanda’s late husband, Sifiso Ncwane. Viewers were shocked by the request and wondered why Nonku didn’t go to Sifiso’s family to request the damages. Fellow housewives also felt uncomfortable with what Nonku and her mom did to Ayanda on the national stage during the season one reunion.  When the drama resurfaced again in the first episode of season two, viewers shared their dismay on social media.  RELATED: RHOD: Growing calls for Nonku and her mom to leave the show Nonku has responded to “cyberbullying”, as some viewers suggest on Twitter that Nonku and her mom be booted off the show.  In a lengthy post on Instagram, Nonku hit back and said it was time to speak out.  “I’m a respected businesswoman and work very hard to provide for my family. I have a voice and as long as I have breath in my body I will never stop speaking and saying enough is enough. Enough of cyberbullying, and people thinking they are entitled to someone’s life they know nothing about. “The 20% of my life that people see on screens think entitles them to make judgements and conclusions about my life is beyond me and their level of reasoning. I can only conclude this by saying it’s a reflection of who they are and how they perceive themselves,” she wrote.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Nonku said she doesn’t need the approval of others and that if God has accepted who she is, other people’s opinions won’t affect her. Fellow housewives Sorisha Naidoo, Annie Mthembu and JoJo Robinson shared their support of Nonku in the comments section.  There were suggestions that her actions on the show were purely for fame and to stay relevant. Ayanda decided not to return to Real Housewives of Durban after just one season.