Lebo Keswa, the wife of Generations actor Letoya Makhene-Pulumo has been accused of vandalism and is said to have spent the night in police custody after being arrested last week.  The accusations against Keswa were made by a businesswoman named Matlhogonolo Ledwaba who is also the founder of a Midrand-based bakery called The Bread Box Studio.  “Unprovoked, she vandalised and broke everything in my shop and called us nobody’s,” wrote Ledwaba on Facebook on Sunday morning.  She then followed up her post by sharing a picture of Keswa with the aforementioned claims.  Her Facebook friends commented with their apologies and tried to console her.  “Sorry for that my sister,” wrote Oria Maswabi.  “What the hell!!?? So sorry han. Open a case,” added Letang Thabang Tlome.  Ledwaba then confirmed that she had opened a case and told her followers that Keswa had been arrested.  RELATED: Generations’ Letoya on unpaid bill: ‘We’ll show you our bank balance’ “Good! People can’t just go into one’s property and think they can do as they please. Your hard work, blood, sweat and tears went in there,” responded Tlome.  When asked by another one of her friends if Keswa was a regular patron of the establishment Ledwaba said that she did not know her prior to the incident.  “Lebohang will never change. Never! Gaa na maitseo mme yo. Gotlhelele (talking from experience). Askies Tlhogi,” added Lesego Pearl Debusschere who said that Lebo has no respect at all and hinted at the fact that she was speaking from her own experience with Lebo.  “I’m sorry my friend for what had happened last night. I’m still shocked, she started with me, taking my car keys… you’ve seen how frustrated I was,” added Zu Jolinkomo.  Speaking to The Citizen, Ledwaba explained that she did not want to go into detail about what happened before the matter had been resolved legally but she confirmed that she had opened a case against Lebo and even provided a case number.  Attempts to confirm the existence of the case with the Midrand police station were unsuccessful as the station’s communication officer was unreachable and other police officers said they were not authorised to speak to the media.  Attempts to reach both Keswa and Letoya for comment went unanswered.  READ NEXT: Letoya and Lebo will not be paying disgruntled Bolt driver