The Stormers are set to unleash Warrick Gelant alongside Damian Willemse in their United Rugby Championship return match against the Sharks at the Cape Town Stadium this coming weekend. Since the SA teams resumed URC duties just over a week ago, Willemse has started at fullback, while Gelant has come off the bench in both games against the Bulls and Sharks and made massive impacts in helping his side fight back to win and draw respectively. Stormers coach John Dobson admitted after Saturday’s draw that they were looking to start Gelant this coming weekend and that was backed up by assistant coach Dawie Snyman who said they now had to work out where to fit the two stars in. “Those two players actually complement each other when they are together on the field. So it is now up to us as a team to work out how we are going to accommodate them, which might be on a week to week basis,” said Snyman. “Dobbo (Dobson) said Warrick is going to start this weekend which is definitely the plan, but how we are going to fit Damian in is still to be decided, and hopefully we will get it right. “If you have guys who can create around you like those two it gives the team so many more opportunities, so playing them together is important for us. But also if one of them has to come off the bench and make an impact like Warrick has had, that’s also where we can benefit as a team.” Stormers wing Seabelo Senatla was also a part of the press conference following the team’s draw on Saturday and admitted he was excited to front up against the star studded Sharks back three again, featuring Springboks Makazole Mapimpi, Sbu Nkosi and Aphelele Fassi. “It is always a brilliant opportunity to test yourself against those guys, they are all Boks,” said Senatla.  “So to play against guys like that, playing against the best, that is how you are going to better yourself and level up. It’s amazing to play against them,” said Senatla. “But in saying that we have the same type of calibre of players, guys like Warrick and Damian are amazing so we also have our own big name players.”