Charlize Theron has shared a couple of pictures of her and her favourite makeup artist on social media, pouting and winking for the camera like only a supermodel, actress, and of course a mom can do. In fact, once she’s hooked on a makeup artist, she gladly even jumps off boats with them! This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The Oscar winner took to Instagram to warn makeup artists out there that they’ve got competition.  In a short message captioning a photo that was probably taken in the comfort of her own home, she wrote: “To every makeup artist out there… watch out, you’ve got competition.” In the image, she poses with a towel wrapped around her head while her daughter’s young hands apply blush to her cheeks. Theron has always been careful about sharing photos of her children on social media and although she doesn’t completely let the cat out of the bag about the name of her favourite makeup artist just yet, one might assume that her eldest, Jackson is behind her bold look. In another post, Charlize wrote that she was getting ready for the People’s Choice Awards and that she was #alreadywinning, posing in daring red lips and golden eye shadow for the win. Rare footage of Charlize and her two daughters having a ball on a Catamaran in Greece also caught the world’s attention, as did their Christmas message where the three girls are wrapped up in ski gear. The single mom is clearly striving to be the best version of a mom she can be. She once told W Magazine that she hoped to be a mom like hers – “Fair, tough and supportive.” The Bombshell star is raising two African children, Jackson and August. She previously told The Daily Mail that her eldest, Jackson has been identifying as a girl since the age of three, and that she has been raising her transgender child as a girl ever since. The actress recently shared an image of her and her second child August relaxing at home, saying: “New year, same energy. C’mon 2022, don’t be a b*tch!”