Gabadinho Mhango of Orlando Pirates has supporters questioning his exclusion from the Buccaneers after his excellent and spirited displays for the Malawi national team at the Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon.  READ ALSO: Minnows Comoros send Ghana crashing out of Africa Cup of Nations Mhango has been in scintillating form despite the Flames being knocked out in the first round. They however could still qualify via the best third placed team format.  Mhango and 15 other players are the only players who ply their trade in South Africa who are representing the PSL, considered to be the best league in Africa at the continental showpiece.  The 16 players are scattered among six national teams at Afcon. Malawi have the most number of SA based players on their team with Mhango, Limbikani Mzava, Richard Mbulu, Khuda Muyaba and Dennis Chembezi. Zimbabwe have Onismor Bhasera, Kudakwashe Mahachi, Ishmael Wadi, Talbert Shumba, Gerald Takwara and Godknows Murirwa.  Ivory Coast have goalkeeper Badra Ali Sangare, Nigeria have goalkeeper Daniel Akpeyi and Olisa Ndah. Gambia have goalkeeper Modou Jobe and Gabon have Jean-Noel Amonome. While Mhango has taken the spotlight, GladAfrica Championship side JDR Stars’ goalkeeper Ali Sangare has not had much luck for Ivory Coast. The keeper committed an unfortunate and costly error that saw the Elephants draw 2-2 against less-fancied Sierra Leone on Sunday.  And while it has since emerged that the 35-year-old had found out that his father was not well before the game, his mistake could cost his team a place in the last 16. If Sierra Leone get a big win in their last game against Equatorial Guinea, and Algeria beat Ivory Coast it could be game over for them. Sangare’s father passed away on Monday and it is not clear if he will be able to continue with the game on Thursday.   Mahachi scored for Zimbabwe in their last game, a 2-1 win over Guinea which could not help them go further in the competition as they finished fourth of Group B.  Kaizer Chiefs’ Akpeyi and Orlando Pirates’  Ndah are yet to get game time for Nigeria’s Super Eagles.