Not many people can do what Bobby van Jaarsveld’s kids recently did on his Insta-feed.  While the most general tongue trick is probably rolling your tongue into a tube, they can do a rare tongue trick called the cloverleaf tongue. Van Jaarsveld’s Instagram post, in which he poses with his three kids, might have you looking again, as the reel shows them all smiling innocently and then, suddenly, two of them pull a rare tongue trick. Somehow, his daughter, Armani and her brother, Sion manage to twist their tongues into multiple bends – something a very low percentage of people can do. According to an article on Colgate’s website, you are gifted if you can twist your tongue into a cloverleaf, which is what the tongue trick is called. They say that according to a study called Dysphagia, 83.7% of the population could do a tongue twist, while a mere 14.7% could do a clover tongue. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. A fan commented on Bobby’s post, saying that pulling her clover tongue trick is her party trick and that she was happy to have come across someone else who could also do it. READ: Bobby van Jaarsveld misses wife, kids after testing positive for Covid Your ability to twist and bend your tongue is controlled by your gene pattern. Being able to do it, doesn’t mean that you have a disease or a disorder, in fact it just proves your uniqueness. Some of the most popular forms of tongue twisting include: Tongue folding (the inward folding of the front edge of the tongue), tongue rolling (rolling the side edges of the tongue upward, forming a tube), tongue turning (turning the tongue’s lateral edges upside down, making the tongue face sideways), and the cloverleaf tongue (folding the tongue into multiple bends that form a cloverleaf shape). According to a study was published in the Journal of Clinical & Diagnostic Research, the language you speak also has an influence on your ability to roll your tongue. It turns out that if you speak a language that involves a lot of tongue movements, chances are that you might be able to teach yourself some crafty new tongue tricks!