A source at Maritzburg United has revealed that the club is preparing an offer to get their former midfielder Siphesihle Ndlovu back from Orlando Pirates. ALSO READ: Maritzburg United announce partnership with Bundesliga clubNdlovu, who left Maritzburg back in 2019 has not been able to make himself a regular at the Buccaneers, making some appearances here and there. Ndlovu is believed to be willing to go back to his former club, but there are also some offers for the midfielder. “They want to take him back on a permanent deal, they really want him because they don’t see the reason behind being at Pirates, but not playing. He was a star at Maritzburg, now he is just an ordinary player who doesn’t even play football that much. It’s stressful, we know because we played football, and when a player goes through that phase, it’s easy for him to find himself doing a lot of wrong things. We don’t want that, we don’t want to see our talent going to waste. Maritzburg have announced the acquisitions of Tawanda Macheke, Genino Palace, Lucky Baloyi, Steven Pereira and Friday Samu. Macheke was previously on the books of Zimbabwean outfit, Black Rhinos FC, while Palace was last at Portuguese side, Académica De Coimbra.Baloyi joins Maritzburg from KZN neighbours Royal AM, while Pereira was playing in Portugal for UD Oliveirense.coach Ernst Middendorp is satisfied with the acquisitions the club have acquired thus far during the current window period.“Palace has made the progress we were expecting whilst training with the club. We now need to work on his match fitness and hopefully, it doesn’t take too long. “Macheke made a good statement since his arrival. He is a forward player who has shown intelligence in game situations. He is hungry, determined to succeed, and hopefully, he will be able to assist us to turn our scoring opportunities into goals. “Steven is a Cape Verde national team player who is a centre-back with a very strong athletic personality, educated in the Netherlands. Steven suffered an Achilles tendon injury but is now fully recovered. “Lucky Baloyi is well-known in South Africa. He is an experienced player with a very professional attitude. He has been the captain in the final years of Bloemfontein Celtic. “Samu is coming from a team that consistently compete in CAF competitions and we are excited to have him. He’s been scoring goals in Zambia, and we believe that he will be one of the solutions to our issues of struggling with finishing.” “I am convinced that all the players will have a crucial productive input for us in the remaining matches of the season.” Middendorp concluded.