Businesswoman Gugu Khathi has denied reports that she was let go from the upcoming season of Real Housewives of Johannesburg (RHOJ) before her episodes even aired.  According to a report by City Press, Khathi was allegedly fired from the show along with her friend Brinnette Seopela and RHOJ alumni Christall Kay after the trio allegedly got into a physical altercation. Christall found out about the upcoming season of the show when the publication called to ask her about it and she indicated that she had no idea they were already filming.   Khathi turned to tabloid publication ZAlebs to deny this. The publication reports that Khathi sent them a direct message on Instagram and asked them to take down an article they had published about her exit from the show.  “Please remove this story… you don’t have your facts right. I’ve also forwarded this to my attorneys this is a sensitive matter that is in court. You are clearly not informed, I’d check my source if I was you. By Monday morning, if this story is still up, I will have no choice but to [demand] an apology legally,” threatened Khathi in a screenshot of the private exchange published by the publication.  The publication’s social media manager then asked Gugu for clarity and she claimed that she could not speak on the matter as it is currently sub judice, however, she confirmed that she and Brinnette had quit due to a dispute with the show’s producers and were not fired as a result of the alleged fight.  “Me and Brinnette resigned because we were refusing to shoot some content on the show that made us really uncomfortable.”  “The fight had taken place way before we resigned,” she added.  She went on to add that she and Brinnette had opened separate cases against Christall Kay following the alleged altercation.  Last April, Christall alleged, in a chat with The Citizen that Gugu assaulted her. “Gugu Khathi is the one who punched me, resulting in a black eye. She did this when I was sitting down and there was no threat to her. I have evidence to prove this. She is scared over what she has done and is trying to make out a case against me. Charges are being laid against her,” Christall said.Last week, Christall spoke to IOL and confirmed that “no one knows” what is going on with the cast of season three of RHOJ and added that there has been a change in production houses handling the show.  M-Net could not be drawn to comment on the cast of RHOJ season three.  Just last week, the Durban franchise of the show unveiled three new cast members, much to the delight of fans of the show. Uthando Nesthembu star Thobile ‘MaKhumalo Mseleku, musician and socialite Londie London and Jojo Robinson will be joining the show.