Jasprit Bumrah, bowling with pace and tremendous skill, ensured India gained the first-innings lead with his five-wicket haul, bowling South Africa out for just 210 on the second day of the decisive third Test at Newlands on Wednesday. South Africa’s disappointing batting display meant India started their second innings leading by 13 runs, and the tourists had extended that to 70 with eight wickets in hand as they reached stumps on 57/2. The Proteas had resumed the second day on 17/1, batting under bright blue skies in warm, sunny conditions. But Bumrah immediately caused waves with his second delivery being a booming in-ducker that knocked over the off-stump of Aiden Markram (8), who had shouldered arms. Nightwatchman Keshav Maharaj batted with dedication to his task for 72 minutes in scoring 25, but the Proteas had slipped to 45/3 after a troubled opening hour. Keegan Petersen and Rassie van der Dussen (21) batted with determination to add 67 for the fourth wicket, and South Africa looked on track to lead on first innings as Petersen and a confident Bavuma took them to 159/4. But Mohammed Shami changed the complexion of the game with two wickets in the 56th over, with his perfect, bolt-upright seam position finding the edge of Bavuma’s back-foot defensive stroke, Virat Kohli taking a fine diving catch, low to his left, at second slip to remove the in-form batsman for 28. Kyle Verreynne, playing with little footwork, was out for a duck two balls later as he was caught behind. Petersen batted with impressive tenacity as he made 72 in more than four hours at the crease, off 166 balls, his second half-century in successive Tests. His career-best innings included nine fours as the 28-year-old drove the ball with aplomb. Bumrah eventually removed him nine minutes after the tea break with another excellent delivery in the off-stump channel that just bounced more than Petersen expected and nipped away, the edge going to first slip. Bumrah also claimed the wickets of Marco Jansen (7) and last man Lungi Ngidi (3) to finish with 5/42 in 23.3 overs, his seventh five-wicket haul in 27 Tests and his best figures against South Africa. The Proteas fought back with the new ball as Kagiso Rabada removed Mayabk Agarwal (7) and Marco Jansen dismissed the other opener, Lokesh Rahul (10), both batsmen being caught in the slips. India were 24/2 when captain Kohli came to the crease, and a thrilling battle developed between him and Jansen, who finished the day with figures of 5-3-7-1. But Kohli (14*) and Cheteshwar Pujara (9*) will be there on the third morning to resume India’s second innings.