It looks to be a two-horse race between Springbok forwards Siya Kolisi and Eben Etzebeth for the SA Rugby Player-of-the-Year award. The seasoned national teammates and off-field friends are the favourites for the accolade, which will be announced by SA Rugby on Thursday. The three other players vying for the sought-after trophy are also Bok players – Makazole Mapimpi, Lukhanyo Am and Damian de Allende. ALSO READ: Sharks pack are ‘confident’ ahead of Stormers clash – Ox Nche It is doubtful, in the history of the award, that there has been a more closely fought “battle”. Kolisi started all 13 of the Bok Tests in 2021 and led the side to a series win against the British and Irish Lions, while the national team also beat the All Blacks away from home. It was a season to remember for the captain and No 6 – one of consistency and excellence throughout. Etzebeth also produced his best ever showing in a Bok jersey, delivering the goods Test after Test, while De Allende and Am have become one of the world’s most respected centre pairings and, outside them, wing Mapimpi has become a class finisher, feared by the opposition. Other categories The race to be named Young Player-of-the-Year is just as tight, with rising Bok outside back Aphelele Fassi going up against Bulls loose forward Elrigh Louw, Stormers No 8 Evan Roos and the Hendrickse brothers, flyhalf Jordan and scrumhalf Jaden. Having beaten the Lions in a three-Test series and got one over the All Blacks it will be hard to look past the Boks as Team of the Year, but the Bulls, who won everything domestically, may feel otherwise. The other side in the running are the BlitzBoks. ALSO READ: England captain Owen Farrell out of entire Six Nations Not surprisingly, the Coach-of-the-Year candidates are in charge of the nominated teams, namely Jacques Nienaber, Jake White and Neil Powell, and in this instance White could be the preferred choice, having turned the Bulls into a dominant force in domestic rugby. Awards will also be handed out on Thursday for Junior Bok Player, Sevens Player, Currie Cup Premier and First Division Player and Try of the Year.