Former Miss SA Shudufhadzo Musiḓa will be heading back to Puerto Rico in March to represent South Africa at the Miss World beauty pageant. The Miss World Organization announced the Miss World 15 fast track winners on Friday, as well as the judges’ choices of 25 other contestants, who will all be vying for the crown on 16 March at the Coliseo De Puerto Rico José Miguel Agrelot. Shudu was one of the winners of the “Beauty with a Purpose” programme, which took place during the Miss World preliminary competitions and interviews in December. The programme secured her spot as one of the 15 fast track winners.   ALSO READ: Shudu wins ‘Beauty with a purpose’ at Miss World, hours before pageant is postponed The finale was set to take place on 16 December, but had to be temporarily postponed after several contestants and staff tested positive for Covid-19.   South Africa’s favourite beauty queen took to Instagram to announce the exciting news of her having made it to the Miss World Top 40. “I am so humbled to announce that I have made it to the @missworld Top 40. Going into this my biggest driver was beauty with a purpose and to have my project chosen as one of the winners is such an honour, but to have met the human embodiments of beauty with a purpose in the other contestants just made the journey that much more fulfilling.  “So, to my fellow Miss World sisters thank you for sharing your hearts with me and the world. To my beautiful South Africa, Ndo livhuwa, it takes a village and it is our stories and your support that have led me to this point. To my Miss World family, thank you.  “I am so excited to be returning to Puerto Rico in March,” she wrote. Friends, fans and followers took to the comments section to congratulate the beauty, including South African fashion designer Gert-Johan Coetzee, who often designs the most beautiful gowns for Shudu. Former Miss South Africa and business woman Basetsana Kumalo also congratulated Shudu.  “Baby girl…. congratulations sweetheart! Queen,” she wrote in the comments section. NOW READ: Smiling Shudu is ‘body goals’ in luminous orange bikini