Following his Africa Cup of Nations feature for Nigeria against Guinea-Bissau, Orlando Pirates defender Olisa Ndah was hailed by former Akwa United teammate Charles Okafor, describing the Bucs defender as a special breed. READ ALSO: Minnows Comoros send Ghana crashing out of Africa Cup of Nations After being an unused substitute in the first two matches of Group B for the Super Eagles, Ndah was given some minutes in the second half as he replaced Frank Onyeka with the Nigerians emerging as 2-0 winners at Roumde Adija Stadium in Cameroon on Wednesday. “Olisa Ndah is a special breed. The way he carries the ball. The touches. The confidence.Top it all, DM, CB, LB or RB, man plays effortlessly. Such a joy to have played with him,” said @charliekafor. Ndah and company made it to the last 16 of the competition with three straight wins, having brushed aside Egypt and Sudan. The Pirates player has been part of the national team since 2019, forming part of the national team that only consists of locally based players while he was also part of the Under-23 squad, named the Olympic Eagles. His first official call-up for the Super Eagles was back in July 2021 against Mexico, but he didn’t feature in the game, as he sat on the bench as the Mexicans thrashed Nigeria 4-0 in an international friendly. Going into the Afcon, the Bucs star and the rest of the Super Eagles squad were not really considered as a team that could be named among possible winners of the continental tournament, but, following their great display, everyone now believes they have a huge chance to lift the trophy. And coach Austine Eguavoen says now people are starting to give them respect. “No one gave us a chance from the first game. I will continue to give credit to my players, but people have started respecting Nigeria, but it won’t get into our heads. Before the tournament, we were the underdogs. We are happy for the progress and performance,” said Eguavoen in his post-match interview. The Super Eagles doing well at the competition will certainly give the Soweto giants defender, Ndah, a huge morale booster and it will help him to keep on shining for Bucs in the DStv Premiership.