A 22-seater Iveco bus and a Toyota SUV collided on the N1 near Mookgophong off-ramp in Limpopo on Tuesday when the driver of the SUV reportedly lost control after a tyre burst.  Officials on Wednesday confirmed the death toll now stands at 17. As of Tuesday evening, 12 people had died while eight escaped with injuries.   Several passengers were trapped in the burning bus, and authorities confirmed five more bodies were discovered trapped in the debris. Arrive Alive reported that the bus “burst into flames and eleven occupants trapped inside were burnt to death; the driver of the SUV was also killed on impact”.  The department of transport and community safety on Tuesday evening said in a statement that the driver of the SUV collided head-on with the 22 seater bus when a tyre burst.  Meanwhile, Transport and Community Safety MEC Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya sent messages of condolences to the affected families and wished a speedy recovery to the survivors. ALSO READ: Five-car collision leaves five dead, N1 towards Limpopo closed One netizen said most of the deaths on South African roads are caused by potholes:  “I travelled most roads in Limpopo province; all of them are in a very bad state and it shows that there is no maintenance happening on our roads at all”. The N1 road around the Mookgophong area is cursed. – @Nonosi3 Another Twitter user, Kelebogile Makgato, said: “It is because there are no barriers. What kind of highway doesn’t have barriers?” In an unrelated incident, an eighty-year-old motorist sustained severe injuries in a collision involving a light motor vehicle and a truck in Centurion on Tuesday. According to Emer-G-Med paramedics who arrived on the scene on Brakfontein Road, the woman was “entrapped in the wreckage of her vehicle”. “Advanced Life Support paramedics worked fervently to stabilise her, whilst rescue technicians cut her free using specialised hydraulic equipment”. She was then transported by ambulance to a nearby hospital for additional medical assistance.