We have one of the biggest meetings on our calendar at Kenilworth on Saturday with the running of the WSB Cape Town Met. I will not be riding at the meeting, but before we touch Sunday’s Turffontein meeting, we will take a glance at the three Grade 1 races on the Cape Town card. We kick off with the Race 7, the Cape Flying Championship over 1000m, where I make it a two-horse race between my first selection, Rio Querari, and up-and-coming Real Gone Kid. They ran together in the beginning of December and Rio Querari is 3kg better off for the neck beating and on that I believe he will turn the tables. These two horses should get you through all bets. Race 8 sees the running of the Grade 1 Schweppes Majorca Stakes for the fillies and mares over 1600m and once again I think it’s a match race between my first selection, superstar Captain’s Ransom, and the younger but high-class Chansonette. These two horses finished first and second in the Grade 1 Paddock Stakes three weeks back and I reckon they will fill those positions again. I believe they will get you through all bets. Race 9 is the headliner on the card, the Grade 1 WSB Cape Town Met, and what a race this promises to be. My first selection is Justin Snaith-trained Jet Dark after a resounding success in the L’Ormarins Queen’s Plate and a repeat of that performance will see him first past the post. Kommetdieding has to be respected as the main danger and will be there again while three-year-old Cape Guineas winner Double Superlative is the lurker in the pack. I’ve been disappointed with Linebacker this season but if he comes back to his usual brilliance, he’ll make them run for the winning stake cheque. Our best bet in last week’s column arrived in the form of Aragosta and he looks to have a bright future and one to note for the SA Derby specifically. I have managed to notch up a couple of winners through the week and I’m happy that I’m ticking over nicely even though there haven’t been any fireworks. Tomorrow I have a total seven rides and some of them have decent chances so I’m hoping to get a couple of winners on the board. We race on the Standside track at Turffontein and there is an eight-race card to preview. The headliner is the Listed Wolf Power Handicap over 1600m and this is backed up by the Allez France Stakes for fillies and mares over 2400m. Race 1 is a Maiden Juvenile Plate for over 1000m and I ride Twin Strike who ran a much better race last time and another decent run is expected. We have the benefit of experience so I’m hoping that will be the deciding factor. Without Equal ran a good race on debut and must be respected while the betting will be your best guide as to the chances of all the unraced runners. Race 2 is a Maiden Plate for fillies and mares over 1160m and of the raced runners I make it a race in two between my first selection Time Is Ticking and Tracy’s Princess. The latter has been slightly disappointing not to have won by now, but this is an ample opportunity, while my selection ran a lovely race on debut and with natural improvement you would expect her to be right there. Once again watch the betting for a guide on the unraced horses. Race 3 is a Maiden Plate over 1160m and I ride Choice Assorted who has run two dismal races and we hoping the blinkers can make some sort of difference. Once again watch the betting for a guide on the unraced horses but of the raced runners I think JP Two Thousand will take all the beating. He was unlucky in his last start and just got caught and he should go close again. Coming In Hot could be his main danger. Race 4 is a Maiden Plate for fillies and mares over 1600m and I ride Maria’s World who is ever consistent and has a winning chance again. But we have Pashasha to beat as she gets the assistance of the apprentice claim and off a good draw it could easily make the difference. Azucar ran on well last time and is a definite danger while Angel’s Wish is another to consider for wider bets. Race 5 is a Pinnacle Stakes over 2000m and I ride Golden Pheasant who has definite winning claims on his current form. We are drawn well and I’m expecting a big run but there are a number of horses with chances. Majestic Mozart won a lovely race last time out and gets the 4kg apprentice allowance off his back and that could prove significant. Johnny Hero is running well and must be included while up-and-coming Infinite Wonder beat the Summer Cup winner in his last start and rates a huge runner. Race 6 is the Allez France Stakes over 2400m for fillies and mares I ride Masaaken who will enjoy the step up in trip but on current form will have to improve to win. This is a wide-open race so add as many as the budget allows but I think we all have Smoking Hot to beat. On form she sets the standard, and this is the perfect opportunity for her to get back to winning ways. Heart Stwings could appreciate the step up in trip while Un Deux Trois and Eternal Life are others who must be included.  Race 7 is the headliner on the card, the Listed Wolf Power Handicap over 1600m, and I ride Al Muthana who is in good form and I’m expecting him to just about win. He has class on his side which is important, so he sets the standard. Prince Evlanoff is the main danger back around the turn while Stone Cold must be respected off bottom weight after a dominant display when winning the Grand Heritage. Race 8 is a Maiden Plate over 1600m and I ride Nichathan who has a place chance after two fair runs and I’m hoping for further improvement but my best bet on the card comes up in the form of Magnum P I who is a winner without a penalty and this is the perfect opportunity to get that official win on the board. I make him a banker in all bets. BEST BET Race 8 No 2 Magnum P I VALUE BET Race 6 No 2 Smoking Hot PICK 6 R576 1, 2 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8 1, 2, 3, 8 1, 2, 7, 8 2, 9, 10 2