As Queen Elizabeth II gears up to celebrate her platinum jubilee next month, South African audiences will gear up to watch a two-part BBC documentary titled The Princes and the Press. The documentary will be broadcast in South Africa on M-Net (DStv Channel 101) on Monday 24 January.  The documentary will air as a double bill that will play the hour-long specials back-to-back. Part one of The Princes and the Press will be broadcast at 7:30pm and it will be followed by part two an hour later.  This timeslot is usually filled by the Sex and the City revival series And Just Like That and as a result of The Princes and the Press, the show will moves an hour later than its usual Monday night slot to 9:30pm.  M-Net promises that And Just Like That will return to its normal broadcast time next week Monday (31 January). Made by journalist Amol Rajan, the controversial The Princes and the Press explores the years following the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee and the positive media reaction to the emergence of a new generation of royals.  The documentary also uncovers the illegal activities UK newspapers committed to get scoops on the royals. Its explosive revelations of the different royal households allegedly leaking information about one another and using the press against each other caused a stir, to put it mildly.  The Princes and the Press also looks at “Sussexit“, one of the most tumultuous periods in modern royal history. Next month, the queen will become the first British monarch to celebrate a Platinum Jubilee, marking 70 years of service to the people of the United Kingdom, the Realms and the Commonwealth. According to the palace, events and initiatives will take place throughout the year, culminating in a four day UK bank holiday weekend from Thursday 2nd to Sunday 5th June to celebrate this unprecedented anniversary.  “The bank holiday will provide an opportunity for communities and people throughout the United Kingdom to come together to celebrate the historic milestone.” Britain has earmarked four days of celebrations that will include public events and community activities, as well as national moments of reflection on the queen’s 70 years of service. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.