Springbok lock Marvin Orie is looking forward to the North/South derby as the Stormers travel up to Pretoria to face the Bulls at Loftus in their United Rugby Championship match-up this weekend. The Bulls have had a tough time of it in the URC so far and are the lowest placed SA team, however the Stormers have not done much better, sitting just one place ahead of them. The Bulls will feel confident having had the Stormers’ number in their last few outings and playing at home on the Highveld. However, it will be anyone’s game and a massive battle is on the cards with both sides desperate to get a win and kick start a move back up the URC table. “Everyone knows about the history of the North/South derby, it is always a big one. They have done well against us in the last few matches and the last time we played at Loftus they got it over us in the last minute,” explained Orie. “But we have a few guys back from injury and national duty, so the energy is high in the group and everyone is excited. We have had a few weeks to prepare for this one, so everyone is ready for the match.” The Stormers are preparing themselves for a huge forward battle, with two powerful packs set to go head to head in what should be an interesting battle for supremacy at the set pieces and breakdowns. “Traditionally the Bulls are known for their forward dominated way of play, so they rely quite a lot on their pack of forwards,” admitted Orie. “So our forwards are up for the challenge. We have some experienced guys in our front row and our entire pack of forwards is good. We have a lot of really good rugby players who have been training well and are really excited for the game on the weekend.” Both sides will also have to contend with playing in hot conditions, with SA teams traditionally not in action during January with this previously the off season. “It has certainly been an adjustment for us, luckily in the 2020 Currie Cup we also played in December and January, so that has prepared us a little,” said Orie. “The conditions are challenging, but we are getting used to it and I think the team that adjusts fastest this weekend will do well.”