Valuable time with Karlien van Jaarsveld’s grandmother seems to be quite an “interesting” affair, according to a recent Instagram post in which the singer poses for a photo with her four children and their great-grandmother. The Afrikaans pop singer recently took her children to visit their Ouma Groot, saying the people in her grandmother’s complex are always scared that her family might be moving in. With four kids by her side, there is probably good reason for concern when it comes to the peace and quiet among residents. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. “The people in my grandmother’s complex are always very worried that our family is planning to move in there. There is always some or other person asking if we’re moving in at the complex, because they don’t know we just came to visit my grandmother,” writes Karlien. READ: WATCH: Karlien van Jaarsveld and family’s tearful goodbye to nanny ‘Bingo’ She says she then always asks in which number they live and when they say no. 54, she says that they are moving into no. 55 in a week’s time.  “I must say, it’s not often that I see people so stressed,” she jokes. Karlien van Jaarsveld then continues her caption with some wise words from a mother who knows the value of family, thanking her grandmother for the opportunity to visit her and calling her “interesting”, while also highlighting her appreciation for all the conversations about eating habits. If you were wondering if Karlien van Jaarsveld might be vegetarian, perhaps this could serve as indication that she’s not. “…but goodness,” she says.  “I will find it hard to eat only green. Everything contains broccoli and kale. And, no sugar,” says the singer who might seemingly also have a sweet tooth and whose grandmother is clearly all about clean and healthy eating. Concluding her caption, she thanks her grandmother for her lessons about how that which comes from the ground can bring healing to a person’s body. As with many families, Karlien van Jaarsveld’s recent visit to her gran likely served as two quick, yet valuable life lessons: Never underestimate the wisdom of a great-grandmother, and always make time for a cup of tea with Gran.