Mamelodi Sundowns made a clean sweep at the Premier Soccer League’s monthly awards for December.ALSO READ: Mbule set to snub Sundowns and join Chiefs?Co-coaches Rulani Mokwena and Manqoba Mngqithi were named Coaches of the Month, while Andile Jali walked away with the Player of the Month award.“Manqoba Mngqithi and Rhulani Mokwena have won a third consecutive DStv Premiership Coach of the Month award, as they claimed the December 2021 prize,” read a statement issued by the Premier Soccer League (PSL) on Monday. “The co-coaches of the defending league champions picked up the December award after an impressive run last month when they led Mamelodi Sundowns to four victories and two draws in the seven matches they played. They suffered their first loss of the season away to AmaZulu. “Royal AM, SuperSport United, Baroka FC were all beaten and the highlight of the Brazilians’ good run in December came when they thumped title rivals Orlando Pirates at home. In the seven games they conceded 7 goals, hitting the back of the net 12 times, to end the month and year 14-points clear of second placed Pirates. “The co-coaches were praised for their good squad rotation and grinding out results in a tough period ahead of the mid-season break.“Marumo Gallants new coach Dan Masilela, who brought positive changes to the club in December, gave Mngqithi and Mokwena a good tussle during the judging session but fell short on the votes. Mandla Ncikazi and Fadlu Davids of Orlando Pirates, also received acknowledgement. “After playing a stellar role for Sundowns in December, Andile Jali was named the DStv Premiership player of the Month. The midfielder beat his teammate Peter Shalulile, Kwame Peprah of Orlando Pirates, Chippa United’s Eva Nga and Royal AM forward Victor Letsoalo to the award. “The judging panel commented: Jali was outstanding in December. He was a marvel to watch as he bossed the Sundowns’ midfield. His experience has been invaluable during a loaded period in December. The manner in which he broke down opponents’ attacks and in turn start build-ups to Sundowns attacks, which on some occasions led to goals, has been very impressive.” Meanwhile, Kaizer Chiefs young midfielder Nkosingiphile Ngcobo, saw his stunning goal, curled from his left foot against Maritzburg United, rewarded by the fans as it was voted the DStv Premiership Goal of the Month for December.