A group of gunmen attacked the the Pikitup landfill site in Devland, Gauteng, which left five security guards dead and two injured on Tuesday. A group of armed men allegedly stormed into the Pikitup Swartkoppie depot in Devland and fired at seven security guards. One of the workers on duty – along with one of the guards who were killed – said while they were changing shifts, a group of men ambushed them and opened fire.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Four of the security guards were reported to have died at the scene. The fifth succumbed to his injuries the following day. The other two guards were taken to the hospital to receive further medical attention. ALSO READ: Gunmen kill three security agents in northwest Nigeria According to Wired2News, the South African Municipal Workers’ Union (Samwu) said none of the security guards’ personal belongings or any of the city’s property had been stolen. “As Samwu, we are concerned that workers who are supposed to protect the city’s infrastructure are themselves left vulnerable to attacks. To make matters worse, these workers are not provided with weapons to defend themselves and the city’s property.”  “We are devastated by what happened. We fear that our workers’ lives might be in danger as there are no dates, and people can come as they please in the depot, also there are no working cameras,” the spokesperson said.  Pikitup’s spokesperson expressed remorse over the shooting but could not confirm whether the company’s management would be able to visit the site.  The reason for the attack is still unknown.  ALSO READ: Five men arrested for Kagiso mass shooting, suspects linked to illegal mining In an unrelated incident, a Saturday evening turned into a night of horrors after a 26-year-old security guard from Escourt in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) went on a shooting spree. Back in September, The Citizen reported the security guard first opened fire on his 40-year-old colleague at a rail station in KZN.  The motive for the attacks is not yet known, but police responded to the scene and investigated six deaths in connection with the incident. After the first shooting, police believe the suspect then headed to a farm in Mooi River where he allegedly killed another security guard, aged 42. The suspect then headed to a small town of Bruntville, which is part of the picturesque Midlands Meander in Mooi River. There, he opened fire on his ex-girlfriend’s 34-year-old sister and three children who were with her at the time. The child, aged five, and a 13-year-old died from the onslaught. Additional information by Narissa Subramoney.