South Africa’s favourite unfiltered entertainer and dancer, Zodwa Wabantu, has joined many other celebrities in embarking on a spiritual journey in the hope of connecting with her ancestors and her calling.  The entertainer took to social media to post a picture of herself in a river while performing a spiritual ritual for her calling.  In the picture, she is wearing a traditional cloth (called ibhayi), and is holding two animal horns, and has captioned her post: “Nkosazana Yamanzi“.  Speaking to Drum magazine, the media personality confirmed that she does indeed have a calling, and she is currently on a journey of spiritual awakening and accepting her ancestors into her life.  In her interview, the dancer said that her awakening began some time in September last year when she started having spiritual dreams, which progressed and became more intense towards the end of the year. “I started having dreams in September last year and they just kept getting serious towards December, I knew they were not normal. I got dreams and would get a message to visit home and get something from a tree.  “I dreamt of beads, something not everyone dreams of, even sangomas would do a lot for them to get a direct message like that,” said Zodwa. Zodwa then said in her interview that she went to the traditional healer she usually visits for cleansing and consultations to get some clarity and understanding of the dreams she has been having. The traditional healer   confirmed that she is one of the chosen ones.  “I then consulted with the sangoma that I often see for cleansings and consultations, and he put everything into perspective for me,” said the entertainer.  Zodwa then went on to explain that her calling is not the usual calling to become a sangoma, and that she was advised not to rush the journey of her awakening. She said everything she needs to do and the woman she needs to become after her awakening will be revealed to her at the right time.  “I am currently in the process of accepting my ancestors. But I was advised not to rush myself. My calling is not necessary to go somewhere and thwasa but I should wait, everything will be revealed to me at the right time,” said Zodwa.  The 36-year-old media personality revealed that everything she has been through in her life makes sense now that she knows she has a calling, and that her ancestors, as well as the universe, have been working in her favour to better her life as well as her career. “Everything that I’ve gone through in my life now makes sense, even the fame… You have to have a clean life, mentally, spiritually and you will see things for what they are, the universe will communicate with you. I have seen everything. I see things for what they really are because of my ancestors,” she said.  When explaining her relationship with her ancestors, the star said that she often misplaces and loses the jewellery and flashy accessories which she buys for herself because her ancestors are not materialistic, and do not want her to live a fake and materialistic life.  “I also buy watches, earrings, and sunglasses but I lose everything because my ancestors don’t want them. They don’t want me to do make-up,” Zodwa said.  She also mentioned how she made it clear to them that she loves money and her boyfriend, and that they should not get in the way of those two important factors in her life.  “They did not take away from me. Sometimes they take cars and houses to show themselves. It’s now up to me to accept and do what I need to do. But I made it very clear to them that I love money and they must not touch it and they must not touch the man I am dating because I love sex,” said Zodwa.  Ending off her interview, the entertainer said that she would be revealing everything about her spiritual journey on the new season of her reality television show, Zodwa Wabantu: Uncensored.  “I’m planning to reveal all in the reality show coming up. There is a lot in store for me this year, people must watch,” said the dancer.