The Stormers are likely to attack the Sharks at scrum-time in their United Rugby Championship match at Kings Park on Saturday, which is why, notwithstanding newly-crowned SA Rugby Player-of-the-Year Siya Kolisi’s return at flank, having Bongi Mbonambi back at hooker is most welcome for coach Sean Everitt. Springbok captain Kolisi replacing James Venter and the strong-scrummaging Mbonambi coming in for Kerron van Vuuren were the only changes to the Sharks team announced by Everitt on Thursday. ALSO READ: Kolisi, Mbonambi in Sharks team for clash against old mates “The Stormers won four scrum penalties against the Bulls last weekend, so we are wary of that and we know they will bring heat to that set-piece. It’s about nullifying that for us because those penalties can win games,” Everitt said. “The Stormers have a big and well-drilled pack and having Steven Kitshoff back brings added firepower and strong leadership for them. “But Bongi will certainly strengthen our scrum. Kerron played very well last weekend and is unlucky to be relegated to the bench, but Bongi is the best in his position in the country.” ALSO READ: Dobson explains why Gelant will stay on Stormers bench for now And with fellow Springboks Ox Nche and Thomas du Toit at loosehead and tighthead respectively, and an encouraging scrumming display against the Lions fresh in the memory banks, the Sharks can approach that crucial set-piece with some confidence. The Stormers are currently South Africa’s highest-placed team in the URC standings, in 11th position, with the Sharks two places back. Both teams will be eager to become possible tenants of the top-10 with a victory. Game management will also be crucial in the heat and humidity of Durban and both teams have young No 10s who performed with aplomb last weekend in Boeta Chamberlain and former Sharks player Manie Libbok. ALSO READ: ‘It was a team effort’, says award winning captain Siya Kolisi The Sharks are laden with eight Springboks, but their success has been just as much due to the performances of their ‘lesser’ stars, who have been as busy as ants providing key aspects of the overall performance. Blindside flank Jeandre Labuschagne is one of those stalwarts. “Jeandre has been in some really good form the last two games,” Everitt said. “He’s had a high tackle count and completion rate. He’s very busy around the field, attending rucks and with his ball-carries.”