The recipient of an extensive mid-life facelift in 2019, Renault has applied more tweaks to its strong-selling but also hugely criticised Kwid in Brazil. Building on the aesthetics enhancements introduced three years ago, the Kwid receives a new grille derived from that of the Kiger, lower positioned headlights, a redesigned front bumper now with air intakes instead of fog lamps, standard daytime running LEDs and 14-inch alloy wheels on higher-end models. At the rear, Renault has revised the taillights and tweaked the bumper with additional features for the top-spec Outsider, equivalent to the South African Climber, being roof rails, an optional bi-tone roof and green accents on the satin silver front and rear skidplates. Inside, the changes are prominent and involve a completely digital instrument cluster as well as upgraded materials and upholstery on the mid-range Intens and the Outsider. Both these models are fitted as standard with the eight-inch Media Evolution touchscreen infotainment system featuring Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, with the Intens receiving blue stitching and the Outsider green embroidery. As part of Brazil’s more stringent safety regulations, an area the Kwid has received extensive flak for since its debut in 2015, all models now come with four airbags, ABS, EBD and ESP, tyre pressure monitoring and Hill Start Assist as standard. ALSO READ: Datsun Go CVT and revised Renault Kwid join A-segment war Underneath the bonnet, the normally aspirated 1.0-litre three-cylinder, though recalibrated and fitted with a new ECU, continues to produces 50kW/91Nm when running on petrol. Fuelled by ethanol, the respective outputs increase to 53kW/98Nm. As before, the three-pot is paired to a five-speed manual gearbox with no option of the five-speed automated manual (AMT) South African models have. Coinciding with the facelift, the Kwid now spans three models with the previous entry-level Life departing completely, thus leaving the Zen as the most affordable Kwid in Brazil.  Pricing therefore kicks-off at R $59 890 (R168 168) with the Intens retailing from R $64 190 (R180 242) and the Outsider from R $67 690 (R190 070). Going on sale in Brazil soon, the updates are expected to debut in South Africa within the coming months after Renault’s confirmation in December that a facelift Kwid is being planned for 2022. As the South African version is sourced from India though, it remains to be seen whether all of the Brazilian Kwid’s changes are incorporated when the Indian equivalent debuts. Additional info from motor1.com Brazil.