Phakaaathi has been led to believe that SuperSport United midfielder Sipho Mbule prefers to join Kaizer Chiefs over Mamelodi Sundowns.ALSO READ: Chiefs working around the clock to wrap-up Sithebe dealThe 23-year-old Bafana Bafana midfielder has been linked with both Chiefs and Sundowns during the last couple of months. However, according to a source, Mbule wants to join Chiefs instead of Sundowns.“He stands a better chance of playing regular football at Chiefs, because unlike at Sundowns, there are not that many players who are competing for his position at Chiefs. But everything depends on SuperSport,” said the source.“Football is a business these days though, so if Sundowns put a better offer than Chiefs, he will have to go to Sundowns. He is a professional player, he knows that sometimes, a player does not always get his wish to play for a club of his choice. But having said that he would be delighted if SuperSport were to accept Chiefs’ offer,” added the source.Chiefs are said to have already tabled an offer for Mbule and are awaiting SuperSport decision on it.Meanwhile, as previously reported, Victor Letsoalo’s reported imminent move to Chiefs in this transfer window is likely to be blocked by a promise of more money by Royal AM, who are not ready to let go of their hot firing goal-poacher, a source at the KwaZulu-Natal based club has revealed. A number of reports have linked Letsoalo to Amakhosi, with the player said to be joining Chiefs in this transfer window. But, the insider at Royal is confident that Letsoalo won’t be going anywhere, at least not now with the club valuing him so much and still need him.“People have to be serious, who wants to lose one of their key players during this stage of the season? There is no way that he will be let go. I know that these people (Chiefs) have been trying by all means to get him to join them. But, the club has a strategy when these big teams come, we have a good financial muscle, so, they promise our players money and what the club does is put more money on that offer. “They are not the first ones, especially from Gauteng, there is another team that has been trying their luck with him. Anyway, he still has a contract with the club which expires next year, so I really don’t see him moving. That is unless he has other plans and says otherwise, but, so far, I know he is happy at the team,” said the insider.