Controversial businesswoman and socialite Shawn Mkhize (popularly known as MamMkhize) has asked her fans and the media not to rob her grandchildren of their innocence by involving them in vicious gossip.  This after Twitter blogger Musa Khawula claimed that there was a paternity dispute about who the father of MamMkhize’s youngest grandchild is.  “Andile Mpisane is said to have dumped Sithelo Shozi after questioning the paternity of their second child. Sithelo Shozi has been cut off by the Mpisane family and the BMW which was gifted to her 2 months ago taken back,” tweeted Musa.  The blogger had copied and pasted a report originally published by Sunday World, without citing the publication as his source. When asked for comment about the disputed paternity of the child, Andile’s mother reportedly told the publication; “The matter has nothing to do with me and I don’t want to get involved.” Musa’s tweet went viral and resulted in social media users sharing their thoughts about the matter and the lives of MamMkhize’s family.  They were also taken aback by the fact that something that was gifted to Sithelo was reportedly taken back. ALSO READ: Mamkhize holds ‘no grudges’ against Sithelo Shozi On Monday morning, MamMkhize took to her Instagram account to lay down the law.  “Goodmorning everyone, hands off my grandchildren. I had such an amazing time with my grandchildren this past weekend. As a parent I think it is important that we protect our kids from unnecessary or premature exposure,” she wrote.  “These are kids guys and let’s not rob them of their Innocence by involving them in the ‘cruelty’ and the harsh realities of this world. I would also like to request everyone to please respect the family’s decision to keep the kids away from social media. Thanking you in advance,” she added.  Fans immediately noted how she referred to her grandchildren in plural and dismissed the veracity of the reports based on that.  READ NEXT: Andile Mpisane takes back baby mama Sithelo Shozi’s BMW