Royal AM Chairperson Andile Mpisane is once again making headlines surrounding the drama with his baby mama Sithelo Shozi. A report in the Sunday World claims that Andile gave Sithelo the boot because he questioned the paternity of their second child. He also reportedly took back the luxurious BMW he bought for Sithelo just two months ago.  Sithelo and Andile welcomed their second baby together last year – a girl named Likuwe “Coco” Mpisane.  Their older daughter, Flo, turned one in May 2021. She was named after Mpisane’s grandmother, political icon Florence Mkhize. South Africans were left speechless in December when their social media timelines were flooded with pictures and a romantic video of Andile proposing to 25-year-old social media influencer, model and content creator, Tamia Louw. ALSO READ: WATCH: Andile Mpisane proposes to Tamia Louw Fans and followers also had many questions after learning that the couple was already married at the time the engagement photos was shared on Instagram. A Mpisane family friend has now come forward and said that Andile’s mother, South African businesswoman, entrepreneur, philanthropist, television personality and socialite Shauwn Mkhize, better known as Kwa Mam’Mkhize, demanded a paternity test for the couple’s second child. The source also told the publication that Mam’Mkhize has always heard stories about Sithelo and her motives for dating her son, and that squabbles over the paternity test led to Andile cutting Sithelo off and getting engaged to Tamia. Although Mam’Mkhize rubbished claims that Sithelo has been cut off or ‘kicked out of her apartment’ in December in a lengthy Instagram post, the source is now claiming that Sithelo has no benefits anymore, and that Mam’Mkhize is raising the child as her own. A source close to Sithelo told the publication that Mam’Mkhize wanted her to sign a non-disclosure agreement, but she refused. While it hasn’t been confirmed by either Andile or Tamia, the couple is rumoured to be expecting their first child together. Andile and his mother was at the glamorous All White Day Party at Max’s Lifestyle Village in Umlazi, KwaZulu-Natal on Saturday clinking Champagne glasses with other famous faces including Somizi Mhlongo and Norma Mngoma. ALSO READ: PICS: Somizi and Mam’Mkhize party up a storm at glamorous ‘All White DayParty’ Compiled by Xanet Scheepers