Extensively updated in July last year for Japan, Subaru South Africa has now rolled the various changes out on the local market Forester. Going on sale later this month, the updates coincides with Subaru South Africa’s 30th anniversary this year, and as before, comprises exterior and specification revisions. While still made-up of four models and three trim levels; base, S ES and Sport ES, all derivatives now benefit from newly designed headlights, sporting an inverted L graphic, a redesigned grille and fog lamp clusters, tweaked front and rear bumpers, revised mirror caps, and a new tailgate insert. Whereas  the unbadged base model continues to ride on 17-inch alloy wheels, all models from the S ES up are mounted on 18-inch alloys with a black multi-spoke design featuring on the Sport, and a dual-tone five-spoke on the range-topping 2.5i-S ES. Reserved for the Sport is a so-called geometric textured materials finish on the mirror caps and rear facia and a six-bulb LED fog lamp setup with black surrounds. Though retained elsewhere, the orange accents have been dropped from the air vents with the slats themselves now sporting a grey finish. As with the Japanese model, Subaru has kept the Forester’s interior unchanged, but with specification upgrades in the form of the latest EyeSight 4.0 safety and driver assistance system. ALSO READ: Forester Subaru’s proud flag-bearer in South Africa Aside from the new software, the system boasts improved Adaptive Cruise Control, Lane Departure Warning, Autonomous Emergency Braking and Sway Control, but includes, for the first time, Lane Centering, Autonomous Steering Assist, Lane Departure Prevention, and a new dual-camera. Underneath, Subaru has reworked the Forester’s front suspension by updating the springs and dampers, while also introducing new engine mounts made out of aluminium to improve noise, vibration and harshness (NVH). Rounding the changes off is a recalibrated power steering system and a revised Hill Descent Control system that can be manually adjusted at speeds up to 35 km/h. As before, only the Sport comes as standard with water repellent seats. Up front, the Forester’s drivetrain line-up continues without change, meaning outputs of 115kW/196Nm from the entry-level 2.0-litre flat-four engine, and 136kW/239Nm for the top-spec 2.5. Both normally aspirated Boxer units are once again mated to a Lineartronic CVT with Subaru claiming combined fuel consumption of 7.6 L/100 km and 8.3 L/100 km respectively. On the colour front, the previous Jasper Green Metallic makes way for a new Cascade Green Silica with other options being Crystal White Pearl, Ice Silver Metallic, Crystal Black Silica, Sepia Bronze Metallic, Magnetite Grey Metallic, Horizon Blue Pearl, and Crimson Red Pearl. The new hue is however not offered on the Sport, whose colour palette consists of Crystal White Pearl, Ice Silver Metallic, Magnetite Grey Metallic, Crystal Black Silica and the unique Dark Blue Pearl. As before, all Foresters come standard with a five-year/100 000 km warranty as well as a three-year/75 000 km maintenance plan.