The new cast members for the upcoming season of Showmax’s smash-hit reality show Real Housewives of Durban have just been teased and fans can barely contain their excitement about who may be joining the show.  In a teaser image shared on social media, three new   The cast member positioned on the furthest left of the image is the woman that has gotten everyone talking as people are convinced it may be Uthando Nesthembu star Thobile ‘MaKhumalo’ Mseleku.  Rumours of MaKhumalo joining the show had been swirling for months, and she was expected to join the Real Housewives of Durban alongside influencer and musician Londie London.  It is unclear who else is joining the show as Showmax has not yet released an official statement, but fans have noticed that some of their faves were not in the teaser image, namely Kgomotso Ndugane, friend to the show Mabusi Seme and music mogul Ayanda Ncwane,who left the show in dramatic fashion after the first season, .RHOD fans did breathe a sigh of relief to see that Nonkanyiso ‘LaConco’ Conco, Nonku Williams, Anne Toni Luddick and Sorisha Naidoo would be returning in the new season.  ALSO READ: Ayanda Ncwane reveals the real reason she left ‘Real Housewives of Durban’ Season two of the reality show, produced in partnership with ​​NBC Universal, was announced last September along with a Lagos franchise set to debut this year.  The Durban franchise broke Showmax records in South Africa last year and after this success, the show was made available in 50 countries across Africa, and was later launched in numerous international territories, including Canada, the UK, Ireland, Spain, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Singapore and the Philippines. “We’ve seen audiences across Africa devour The Real Housewives of Johannesburg and The Real Housewives of Durban,” said Candice Fangueiro, Showmax’s head of content.  “The Real Housewives franchise lends itself to localisation and we know our audience is going to love seeing the show reinvented Naija-style. We can’t wait to show the continent – and the world – another side of Lagos, with all the drama, high fashion and luxury you’d expect from The Real Housewives franchise.”  “We are so proud to build on the international success of The Real Housewives of Durban and Johannesburg with our partner Showmax,” added Ana Langenberg, SVP, Format Sales & Production, NBCUniversal International Formats.  We also can’t wait to see the second season of Durban come to life and deliver fans all over the world even more extravagance and entertainment.” Since its inception, Real Housewives of Johannesburg has been faced with drama and when it finally made its way on air after years in the making, it suffered the consequences of behind-the-scenes drama that saw the show get put on ice indefinitely. Entertainment blogger Phil Mphela reports that the show will return later this year for the third season and its original producer Sonia Mbele will have a hand in the production.  READ NEXT: Zuma’s ex fianceé talks ‘Real Housewives of Durban’ role