Actress Tanya van Graan is a keen adventurer and free diver whose Instagram feed inspires others to travel and live life to the full. Her role as Sally in the highly anticipated movie, Redeeming Love, which is premiering in Johannesburg tonight will probably lure many to her profile, but be warned: Wanderlust is real. The free diving model and ocean warrior’s Instagram feed is filled with local adventures and South African destinations worth adding to your bucket list. Kersefontein The national monument and eighth generation working farm, Kersefontein is located outside of Hopefield in the Western Cape. Not much has changed with regards to the beauty, tranquility, and pure isolation since the farm was bought by the Melck family in 1770. The current custodian and farmer, Julian Melck, has transformed some of the farm’s buildings into luxurious rooms and suites, offering bed and breakfast, as well as self-catering options. People visit the farm for many reasons – some use it as a filming location, others explore the romantic history of the farm and its surrounds and just indulge in the simple pleasures of farm life. If you do visit, remember to ask about the farm honey, which is divine! False Bay If you’re a keen free diver like actress Tanya van Graan, False Bay and its diving options will amaze you. Located between the mountainous Cape Peninsula and the Hottentots Holland Mountains, the C-shaped mouth of the bay faces south and is demarcated by Cape Point to the west and Cape Hangklip to the east. The bay was dubbed False Bay, because sailors of old often confused it with Table Bay, which is located a bit further along the coast. Van Graan seems to enjoy free diving in these waters, often spotting unique sea creatures like this beauty of an octopus. It is also in these Kelp Forests that the popular documentary, My Octopus Teacher, was filmed. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Grysbokkloof, Montagu For those who enjoy being out in nature, Grysbokkloof Private Game Reserve’s tented accommodation is another destination to add to your bucket list. Located 7km outside Montagu in the Western Cape, this glamping spot is the perfect gateway to relaxation and reconnection. It is set on a mountain, boasting magnificent views and it is completely off the grid. If you’re looking for a place where you can wake up to birdsong in the morning and enjoy the soft whispers of nature from a wood-fired hot tub, this is it. READ: Five idyllic spots for a romantic Valentine’s getaway The Fazenda The word Fazenda means ‘estate’ or ‘large farm’ in Portuguese. Located at the foot of the Langeberg Mountains in the historical Hermitage Valley close to Swellendam, The Fazenda’s three luxury self-catering mountain cabins are the perfect couples escape and a luxurious retreat. Here you can hike, ride your mountain bike, forage mushrooms in the forest, pick organic and seasonal veggies from their pastures or just relax on the sun terrace with a glass of wine.   Mount Ceder Located in the Cederberg Mountains, Mount Ceder is a great wilderness area with majestic views, spring flowers, rugged mountain bike rides, walks and hikes – perfect for young and old. Mount Ceder offers an array of accommodation options, including Gianst’s Camp, Klipbokkop, Blinkberg, Waboomhoek, Puntjie, Kareeboom, Taaibos, Peperboom, Leeustert, Melkbos, Kliphuis and some campsites. Here you can truly submerge yourself in nature, from self-guided hikes, renting a canoe for a couple of hours and birdwatching to enjoying exceptional star gazing at night. This photo of Tanya van Graan and BJJ competitor, Martino da Silva was taken on Klipbokkop.