Around this time of the year, people become resolute about changing their lifestyle habits in the hope of losing weight but there are other options such as plastic surgery to assist in this and casting director Lesedi Matsunyane-Ferguson is proof of this.  The daughter of Connie Ferguson and fellow actor Neo Matsunyane shared that she had a nip and tuck and was ready to show off the impressive results.    Lesedi had the popular procedure called a “mommy makeover,” which consists of a combination of surgeries such as a tummy tuck, liposuction, and a breast lift or implants depending on what the patient wants to achieve.  The procedure is a top choice for moms who have had C-sections and want to regain their pre-baby shape or just achieve their ideal new mom-bod. The casting director of Ferguson Films, a company founder by her mom and her late father Shona Ferguson, had the procedure at Marang Aesthetics, a body and skin aesthetics, plastic surgery company based in Johannesburg.  “A nip and a tuck but still packing a punch. Now that I’m all healed up I can show off,” she wrote on Instagram.   She thanked Marang and plastic surgeon Brian Monasia for getting her “mojo” back. Lesedi has a son named Ronewa with her ex-boyfriend, photographer and businessman Austin Malema. Lesedi’s post received a lot of comments from moms who inquired about the procedure. They asked how long it took for her to heal, as they were looking to do the surgery as well.  “Apparently I have a high tolerance for pain so I was up and about pretty early. But I took it very easy for at least [four] weeks,” she told one of her followers.  After healing from the surgery, Lesedi has been sharing many bikini pictures poolside. She recently turned 29 and will be enjoying the last year in her 20s with many vacation pics, she said. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Just like any reconstructive surgery, it is up to the patient to maintain the results with a healthy lifestyle and exercise.