In this week’s royal update, Prince Harry is accused of making life hard for the Queen, while Kate Middleton’s new royal title will be bittersweet for Prince William once Prince Charles is appointed as King. Prince Harry and Meghan Markle may not be returning to the UK anytime soon, which means Queen Elizabeth II will not get the chance to see her grandson Archie again, or meet her new granddaughter, Lilibet.  Prince Andrews’s teddy bear collection has been revealed, and we look into Princess Charlene of Monaco’s engagement ring, which she hardly wears.  Once Prince Charles – the son of Queen Elizabeth II and the late Prince Philip – becomes King, he will not be the only member of the royal family who will have to adapt to the appointment of a new monarchy, because his ascension to the thrown will also impact other royal members such as Prince William and Kate Middleton. The ascension of Prince Charles, who is currently known as the Prince of Wales, will mean his current title will be passed on to William, making him the new Prince of Wales.  A change to William’s title means there will also be a change to his wife, Kate Middleton’s title, who will be referred to as the Princess of Wales. This title will be familiar to many, as it was the title last held by Princess Diana – William’s late mother, and the first wife of Prince Charles.  The Duke of York is said to have an extensive collection of cuddly toys specifically arranged on a bed, and royal helpers were given a laminated photograph of the teddy bear arrangement to ensure they were all put back in the correct orer after the bedroom and bed were cleaned and made. The collection had about 50 to 60 studded teddy bears, and if the 61-year-old prince would find his collection in the wrong order or placement, he would scream and shout. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. ALSO READ: Royal news: The Queen marks her 70th year of reign, mourns another death Prince Albert proposed to Princess Charlene in 2010 with a beautiful and unique pear-shaped engagement ring, but the Princess of Monaco hardly wears it.  The engagement ring includes a huge three-carat, pear-cut diamond flanked by smaller diamonds arranged in a triangular shape.  The masterpiece was created and designed by Repossi, a Parisian jeweller who is known for exquisite handcrafted jewellery.  The cost of the ring has never been revealed, emphasising its value and rarity.  Fans of the princess never sees her wearing the engagement ring, but it has been said that Charlene wears the ring on special occasions she attends alongside her husband.  On Sunday, Prince Harry’s legal representation released a statement revealing the UK government had made the decision to ban him from paying for police protection while he and his wife Meghan Markle – as well as their children Archie and Lilibet – visit the country.  Harry plans to seek a judicial review to have a court decide if the decision made to ban him from paying for police protection in the UK was made lawfully or not. When Meghan and Harry stepped down from their royal duties and titles, they lost their taxpayer-funded security. This, however, was not a problem for the Duke of Sussex, as he is willing to pay out of pocket for the police protection. Prince Harry’s rejected request means he can no longer travel to the UK with his family, and this means the queen may not get the chance to see Archie again, or meet Lilibet for the first time.