The upcoming DStv Compact Cup is set to give a spotlight to a host of youngsters from different clubs in the Diski Challenge, who have caught the eye of many fans, as they voted for them to be included in the four team’s tournament.ALSO READ: Royal AM to block Letsoalo move to Chiefs? There will be a total of 16 young players, who will be turning out for Warriors FC, comprising of Kaizer Chiefs, Orlando Pirates, Swallows FC and TS Galaxy, while Coastal United have players from Cape Town City, Stellenbosch United, Chippa United and Baroka FC. The second inland stream Dinaledi FC, will be graced with stars from SuperSport United, Mamelodi Sundowns, Marumo Gallants as well as Sekhukhune United FC, whereas Amabutho FC, will have representatives from AmaZulu FC, Golden Arrows, Maritzburg United and Royal AM. Within the 16 players, there are four notable names to watch out for during the tournament who have been scoring goals regularly for the respective clubs. Amakhosi’s Mduduzi Shabalala is one of the players who have displayed some incredible performances in the Diski Challenge and will be looking to make a mark when coming up against his seniors. Another player who will be looking to shine is 19-year old Chilli Boys reserves striker Thulani Mini who will be turning out for Coastal United. He has scored six goals for Chippa in the DDC and has already earned himself an appearance in the senior team. For Dinaledi, there are four players to choose from in Kabelo Moagi (Sundowns), Sibusiso Nkosi (Gallants), Ryan Manning (SuperSport) as well as Sanele Manxele (Sekhukhune). But, Nkosi has been a stand out performer for the Gallants with five goals to his name, even though the team finds itself at the bottom half of the table. Amabuthu, meanwhile, also have a goal-poacher at their in their squad in Samukelo Mzolo of Arrows, whose five goals as well as has seen him be the go to guy for Abafana Be’Sthende juniors.  The competition will be a good platform for the striker to get the recognition he deserves and probably catch the eye of his senior team technical staff. The draw and line-ups for the DStv Compact Cup are set to be announced on Saturday with the competition set to run from 22 January until the 29th of the same month.