Relationships may be trembling on The Wife as Hlomu has found herself in the arms of her previous lover.  Mandisa has found out that Nqobi is having an affair with the commissioner’s wife, and Zandile may be spending more time in jail after Nkosana promised she would soon be released.  In the previous episodes of the telenovela, viewers witnessed Hlomu finding comfort from her ex fiancé, Sandile after she was physically abused once again by Mqhele, and ended up in hospital where she found out that she had miscarried her baby due to the physical trauma she experienced from Mqhele’s beating.  Although Hlomu tried her best to keep the abusive incident quiet from everyone else, the Zulu brothers found out that Mqhele had beat her once again, and they all joined forces to give Mqhele a taste of his own medicine by beating him up for laying his hands on MaHlomu.  Mqhele has had a feeling that Hlomu has been keeping something from him, so he went out on a quest to find out where it is that Hlomu goes when she leaves the Zulu household and to his surprise he finds out that Hlomu has been seeing Sandile behind his back.  Viewers have been divided by Hlomu’s decision to have a secret affair with her ex fiancé. Some feel that Mqhele is to blame as he is responsible for pushing Hlomu away and into the arms of her previous lover, while others feel that it is wrong for Hlomu to cheat on Mqhele, despite the physical abuse she has endured throughout the relationship.  ALSO READ: The Wife: Fans react to Hlomu’s heartbreaking news in this week’s episodes Things have gotten heated between Mandisa and Nqobi after she was confronted by the commissioner’s wife at the tavern she and Nqobi own, who admitted that she was having a romantic relationship with Nqobi. After Mandisa overheard that money was raised to get Zandile, Nkosana’s wife out of jail, she found the money which was placed in a black duffle bag and burnt it all to get back at her partner for cheating on her. Some viewers could sympathize with Mandisa’a actions, because they understand how hurt she must have been after finding out that her partner was being unfaithful with another woman, but other viewers felt that she may have taken it too far, and that the best revenge would have been to pack her belongings and leave their relationship.