Here is your daily news update. Click on the links below for the full story or visit our home page for the latest news. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) has broken its silence following the release of the Zondo commission’s report. Having come under fire by some organisations and political parties recently, the NPA says “significant progress has been made” with its case, but also acknowledged its slow pace regarding prosecutions. “Rebuilding the NPA after years of being undermined by state capture actors was never going to be quick or easy. “Yet, significant progress has been made, and the NPA is slowly, but surely being rebuilt to enable it to deliver on its vital mandate,” the NPA said in a statement on Wednesday. Acting Chief Justice Raymond Zondo has hit back at Tourism Minister Lindiwe Sisulu for her controversial opinion piece in which she criticised the judiciary and constitution. In an opinion piece published by IOL, Sisulu argued that the constitution was a “neo-liberal” document that had done little to bring about social justice for apartheid victims, and also seemed to be likening the country’s judiciary to what she called “house negroes” and said black politicians had become “black assets for colonised capital”. She said in part: “The most dangerous African today is the mentally colonised African and when you put them in leadership positions as interpreters of the law, they are worse than your oppressor. They have no African inspired ideological grounding, some are confused by foreign systems… In America these interpreters are called the house negroes…” The Democratic Alliance (DA) says it will write to National Assembly Speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula requesting a debate of public importance be scheduled, following the recent release of part one of the state capture commission’s report, and the ANC’s cadre deployment committee records.  DA deputy chief whip in Parliament Siviwe Gwarube said they would write to Mapisa-Nqakula on Wednesday afternoon, requesting that the National Assembly’s programming committee prioritises the debate. There is a new Covid-19 phrase floating around cyberspace this week and it sounds scary. Is Deltacron a new variant? is there a reason for concern? Since the start of the pandemic, several new Covid-19 variants made headlines, four of which have been designated as “variants of concern” – Alpha, Beta, Delta, and Omicron. Deltacron is an alleged hybrid Covid-19 mutation first discovered in a Cyprus lab earlier this month. It is most likely the result of a lab contamination. The mutation has “the genetic background of the Delta variant along with some of the mutations of Omicron”, but there’s no reason to worry just yet. In the latest developments of the Zulu Royal family’s court battle, the Pietermaritzburg High Court dismissed an application by Queen Sibongile Dlamini-Zulu to amend her court papers, so that she could challenge the validity of the five marriages of late Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini. Acting KwaZulu-Natal judge president Isaac Madondo handed down his judgment on Wednesday morning, saying the queen did not advance reasonable reasons to amend her court papers. Many South Africans may need to rely on the Covid-19 SRD grant in 2022. If you need to reinstate the grant, you’ve come to the right place. Here’s how to reinstate the grant While some provinces give assistance in the form of cash, the SRD grant is given for a short time only – usually for up to three months. Depending on circumstances, it may also be extended for another three months. Here’s how to reinstate the Covid-19 SRD Grant. ANC veteran and Tourism Minister Lindiwe Sisulu’s opinion piece slamming the South African constitution and judiciary is not based on any fact, but meant to appeal to former president Jacob Zuma’s supporters in the governing party. That’s according to political analysts who spoke to The Citizen on Tuesday, who say Sisulu’s statements appear to be part of her attempt to revive her bid for a senior position in the ANC’s top six leadership ahead of the party’s elective conference in December this year. A 22-seater Iveco bus and a Toyota SUV collided on the N1 near Mookgophong off-ramp in Limpopo on Tuesday when the driver of the SUV reportedly lost control after a tyre burst. Officials on Wednesday confirmed the death toll now stands at 17. As of Tuesday evening, 12 people had died while eight escaped with injuries. Several passengers were trapped in the burning bus, and authorities confirmed five more bodies were discovered trapped in the debris. Democratic Alliance (DA) federal council chair Helen Zille says she “laughed out loud” after hearing President Cyril Ramaphosa’s promise to end state capture and corruption. Ramaphosa delivered the ANC’s January 8 statement during the party’s 110th birthday celebrations at the Old Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane, Limpopo on Saturday. He indicated that one of the ANC’s goals as part of its renewal process was to end state capture, saying the party “will support government in instituting measures required to eliminate the conditions and conduct which enable state capture and corruption”. ALSO READ: Daily news update: Zandile Mafe case, Limpopo crash kills 12, CT cop charged with murder