South Africa’s 2022 circuit racing activities will start on a high note at the Zwartkops Raceway near Pretoria this weekend, with the annual Passion for Speed event boasting a 21st birthday,  22 races and more than 320 competitors. The birthday will belong to the Pre-1966 brigade, which categories have long headed up the country’s historic car racing spectacle. The biggest crowd drawcard should be the Marlboro Crane Hire Pre-1966 Legend Production Car crowd, led by contenders like Sarel van der Merwe (Chevrolet Chevelle), Hennie Groenewald (Mercury Comet), Jonathan du Toit (Chevrolet Nova), Jeffrey Kruger (Plymouth Barracuda), Lee Thompson (Ford Galaxie), Mark du Toit (Ford Fairlane) and Paige Lindenberg (Ford Fairlane). Joining them in the Under 2-litre class will be people like Carel Pienaar (Lotus Cortina), Marc Miller (Alfa Romeo Giulia), Vic Campher (Volvo 122S), Roger Houston (Alfa Romeo Giulia) and Alan Poulter (Volvo 122S). Officially, the weekend’s top billing will belong to the 45-minute Tourist Trophy race for Pre-1966 Le Mans Sports and GT category. The endurance event with a mandatory pit stop should see podium chasers like Warren Lombard (Ford Cobra), Oliver Dalais (Ford GT40), Chad ten Doeschate (AC Cobra), James Temple (Daytona Coupe), Mark/Jonathan du Toit (Ford GT40), Josh Dovey (Ginetta G4R), Peter Bailey (Ford GT40) and Djurk Venter (Daytona Coupe).  The Marlboro Crane Hire Pre-1966 Little Giants class should see victory favourites like Mark van Rooyen (Sunbeam Tiger), John ten Doeschate (Mini Marcos), Ishmael Baloyi (GSM Dart), Alan Poulter (Ford Corsair), Gary Stacey (Ford Cortina), Vic Campher (Volvo P1800), Terence Botha (Mini Cooper), Jake Dovey (Austin Healy Sprite) and Ben van der Westhuizen (Ford Cortina). The Pre-1974 International Sports Prototype races will feature drivers like Mark du Toit (Lola T70), Franco Scribante (Chevron B19), Jonathan du Toit (Chevron B9), Peter Bailey (Porsche 917), Oliver Dalais (Porsche 917), Rob Beaumont (Porsche 917), Rui Campos (Porsche 911 RSR), Andre’ van der Merwe (Porsche 911 RSR), Greg Thornton (Chevron B9), Andre’ Bezuidenhout (Porsche 911 RSR) and Russel Fear (Lola T70). ALSO READ: Zwartkops Passion for Speed 2022 promises plenty of action The event’s quickest lap times should be set by the G&H Transport Extreme Supercars, with front runners expected to be Charl Arangies (Porsche 911 GT3), Dayne Angel (Porsche 911 GT2 R), Xolile Letlaka (McLaren 650S), Jonathan du Toit (Ferrari F430, Ben Morgenrood (Lexus V8), Darren Winterboer (BMW M3), Reghardt Roets (Nissan GT-R), Mark du Toit (Ferrari F430, Greg Parton (Lamborghini Huracan) and Nicky Dicks (Porsche 911GT3). With 50 cars entered, the Pre-1980 Midvaal and Past Greats category will boast the event’s largest field. The overall winner should be veteran Willie Hepburn (Opel Rekord V8), chased by people like Graeme Nathan (BMW 325i S), Stuart Viljoen (Mercedes-Benz 300 SEL), Dawie Olivier (Alfa Romeo GTV6), David Austin (Ford Capri), Brendon Parker (Datsun 1200 GX), Rene Jansen van Rensburg (Ford Escort), Travis Jensen (Datsun 1200 GX), Chris Davison (Opel Kadett Superboss) and Mario Rossi (Alfa Romeo GTV6). The HRSA category will offer spectacle from people like Rudolf de Vos (Chevrolet CanAm), (George Avvakoumides (Porsche 911), Johann Smith (Mazda Capella), Jannie van Rooyen (Volkswagen Scirocco), Fred Konig (Volkswagen Scirocco), Alan Poulter (Datsun SSS) and Johan Barnard (Ford Capri). The M Performance BMW races will see champion Andreas Meier (BMW E36) face people like Lorenzo Gualtieri (BMW E90), Jan Eversteyn (BMW E46), Sav Gualtieri (BMW E30), Lyle Ramsay (BMW E36), William Einkamerer (BMW E93), Oz Biagioni (BMW E46) and Eugene Gouws (BMW E36). Mobil V8 Supercar champion Mackie Adlem (Jaguar XK8) will come under attack from Franco di Matteo (Jaguar XK8), Julian Fameliaris (Chevrolet Corvette), Larry Wilford (Fuchs Chevrolet Corvette), Warren Lombard (Ford Falcon), Thomas Reib (Chevrolet Lumina), Terry Wilford (Ford Falcon) and JP Nortje (Chevrolet Corvette). Jeffrey Kruger (Birkin), Thomas Falkiner (Taylon), Mackie Adlem (Birkin), Clive Wilmot (Birkin), Rudi Barnard (Birkin), David Jermy (Taylon) and Sean Hewitt (Birkin) could all win Lotus Challenge races. Top Historic Single Seater contenders must include Alan Kernick (Tempest), Ben van der Westhuizen (Royale), Mike Ward (Royale), Richard Baker (Titan) and Andrew Horne (Royale). Rounding out events will be HRSA Pursuit handicap races, with probable winners Rob van Aarle (Ford Escort), Mike O’Sullivan (Honda Ballade), Stan Stacey (Alfa Romeo GTV6), Henk de Klerk (Honda Civic), Willem van Niekerk (Marauder) and Karel Stols (Nissan Sentra). The Zwartkops gates will be open from 6am, with racing to commence at 7am. Admission will cost R200 per adult and R120 per student with kids under 12 going in for free, while everybody can visit the pits at any time. The circuit’s Mini Moke people trains will run between the pit gate and spectator areas throughout the event.