Baking is exactly like a science project because you have to follow the measurements of a recipe to the letter, a process which often leaves you with large amounts of leftover ingredients.  To avoid throwing anything away, we’ve put together some handy tips to help you store your leftover baking ingredients so that you can use them again at a later stage.   Given its exorbitant price, you’ll probably want to make the most of any vanilla beans and pods that you have purchased for flavouring the mousse of your cakes and puddings.  Did you know that you can insert a split pod into a sugar jar to make your own vanilla sugar? Make sure you use a good quality bean, preferably from Tahiti; Polynesian vanilla is highly aromatic. Count one or two pods for 500g of powdered sugar.  Meanwhile, famous chef Jean-François Piège advises drying a pod before mixing it in, in order to boost the vanilla taste of a dessert, a tip he shared on an episode of Le Meilleur pâtissier. Egg whites are 88% water and can easily be frozen. After weighing out the amount needed for your meringue or for your moist but light cake, pour the rest into an ice cube tray, or into an airtight container.  You can store them this way for up to ten months. You may even find the ingredient useful in the future for recipes that work best with aged egg whites.  This will help you create perfect macarons, according to Mercotte, the famous amateur pastry chef who accompanies Cyril Lignac on television. The expert separates the whites from the yolks up to a week before making the shells…  ALSO READ: Daily hacks: Can you decongest your nose using garlic cloves? When it comes to food waste from pastry making, this is one of the most significant. After all, to successfully frost a cake and obtain a smooth, even result, you need a lot of extra material.  Shiny icing, made of glucose, sugar and gelatin, can be frozen. However, when reusing the preparation, it will be necessary to mix it again in order to obtain a homogeneous texture.  But be aware that the icing can also be kept for a week in the refrigerator. It can then be reused to make another dessert. Another option is to melt the icing and add mascarpone. You can then thin it out and obtain a new icing that you can easily use with a pouch to decorate cupcakes or cookies.  If you’re making a cake, you will probably have prepared a sponge cake, a rolled cookie or a dacquoise for your base. And of course, you will have some base left over. Don’t panic, keep the surplus until you finish preparing your menu.  Then in a second step, you can moisten the dry cake with a sufficient amount of milk. By adding vanilla sugar, dried fruit and eggs, you can prepare a new cake quickly and easily.  You could also decide to dry the remains of the original cake in a preheated oven at 100° to obtain crumbs which can be sprinkled on desserts like mousses, puddings, fruit purees or other creamy desserts.  These can be stored in an airtight box for three months.