Generations: The Legacy actress Letoya Makhene-Pulumo has filed a countercharge of sexual harassment against her wife’s accuser after the actress was allegedly fondled by an associate of her wife’s accuser.  Over the weekend, a Midrand business owner took to social media to allege that Letoya’s wife Lebo Keswa (who now goes by her married name Lebo Makhene-Pulumo) vandalised her business and insulted her and her staff.  “Unprovoked, she vandalised and broke everything in my shop and called us nobodies,” she wrote on Facebook on Sunday morning. She then followed up her post by sharing a picture of Keswa with the aforementioned claims. Her Facebook friends commented with their apologies and tried to console her. The business owner then confirmed that she had opened a case and told her followers that Keswa had been arrested. According to reports, she was detained at the Midrand Police Station.   Speaking to The Citizen, Lebo’s accuser explained that she did not want to go into detail about what happened before the matter had been resolved legally but she confirmed that she had opened a case against Lebo and even provided a case number.  Attempts to confirm the existence of the case with the Midrand Police Station were unsuccessful as the station’s communication officer was unreachable and other police officers said they were not authorised to speak to the media.  Attempts to reach both Keswa and Letoya for comment went unanswered.  Sunday World reports that Letoya was allegedly fondled on her private parts by a Nigerian national who asked to have an orgy with her and Lebo.  The publication cited a police officer who did not want to be named because she is not allowed to speak to the media.  The police officer told the publication that Makhene alleged that she was approached by the owner of the bakery who asked Letoya if she and Keswa were open for orgy activities. What then ensued was an argument between the parties involved after the Nigerian man reportedly told the couple to “stop being lesbian”.  “The Nigerian guy touched her private parts and this pissed her off. She then told Keswa who confronted the guy and they started attacking her. She then retaliated in self-defence,” the officer told Sunday World. The publication further reports that Keswa sustained injuries during the altercation. When asked for comment on the couple’s allegations, the business owner simply told The Citizen: “I believe we have a fair and efficient policing and court system. The investigation and the courts with facts not fabricated stories will arrive at a just outcome, therefore I will not respond to baseless and fabricated accusations.”