Mzansi’s favourite family dating show Date My Family (DMF) leaves viewers flabbergasted at times and the latest episode wasn’t any different.  Sunday’s episode followed 32-year-old Tumisang Modiri from North West, currently residing in City Deep, Johannesburg, on his search for love.  Tumisang is a protection officer and a South African National Defence Force (SANDF) member. The bachelor said he tried the traditional route of dating but kept finding the same type of woman, that is why he went on Date My Family. The show was recently moved to an earlier timeslot, at 5pm, to cater for the new season of Big Brother Mzansi.  Tumisang described himself as a reserved guy but said he had his moments of being a “crazy person”, but not too extreme. The bachelor also said he was looking for someone who is reliable, comfortable and beautiful.  The first family represented a bachelorette named Stephney. The 25-year-old said she was looking for someone spiritually inclined, emphasising her healthy lifestyle as a vegetarian, working out, and as a free spirit.  Instantly, Stephney’s family were not impressed by Tumisang’s looks when he walked in, especially her male “bestie” Magapi, also known as “Hype”.  Tumisang was uncomfortable that Stephney had a male best friend and wanted as much information about their friendship as possible.  Hype reassured the bachelor they were just friends. Stephney was surprised by her friends’ representation of her, who said she was celibate and wondered why they were lying.   Stephney said: “I am not celibate now but I was celibate.”  During the Date My Family episode, Tumisang revealed he was a father, which didn’t sit well with Stephney or her friends. The film freelancer also shared she was open to polyandry (a woman with more than one partner), which Tumisang wasn’t too comfortable with.  The second family belonged to a woman named Patricia who said she was looking for a family-oriented man as she wants her own kids as well. Right out of the gate Tumisang was attracted to one of her friends, Lebo, because of her “light complexion”. Patricia’s family was reserved and shy throughout Tumisang’s visit and this made things awkward to watch.  The topic turned to Tumisang’s relationship with his baby momma but he said there wasn’t any drama as they are civil and co-parent well.  When he asked about Patricia’s looks, her friend answered that she was “average”, “she’s neither beautiful nor ugly. She’s okay”. An answer that surprised Tumisang and viewers.  He was apprehensive that Patricia’s last relationship was abusive, believing she was too timid as a result.  The last family represented 33-year-old Lerease from Eldorado Park. The mother of a six-year-old described herself as a homebody who is close to her family and wants a man good enough for her daughter.  From the get-go, Lerease was annoyed that Tumisang couldn’t pronounce her name correctly, as her family quickly asked him tough questions.  Tumisang was unhappy with the family’s unwillingness to share details of Lerease’s divorce and what led up to it. The family date was on Lerease’s birthday, however the bachelor was put off with the secrecy of his visit.  At the end of the episode, Tumisang chose Stephney but their date did not go well. Stephney realised her male best friend is the man she wants and the man who broke her celibacy was Hype.