Warning: Spoilers ahead!  The South African Film and Television Awards (Safta) award-winning actress, Linda Sokhulu has just joined the ever-evolving cast of 7de Laan as Tumi.  Sokhulu’s character is the youngest of four siblings who lost her mother when she was seven years old.  Tumi enters the storyline in search of answers about her mother’s death when something that her father’s first wife says triggers her to delve deeper. Her father, a polygamist, runs numerous successful businesses which her siblings are involved in, but she chose a different path, furthering her studies and qualifying as a medical doctor.  Ambitious as she is, she then went back to university and got a professional qualification as a lawyer. Her track record when it comes to romance is not that successful, however.  In fact, one of her relationships resulted in her exposing her husband’s dubious dealings when her strong moral ethics wouldn’t allow her to look the other way.  The relationship ultimately ended in divorce. READ: ‘Warmed the hearts of many’- 7de Laan pay tribute to Themsie Times As Tumi arrives in Hillside, she hopes that her grandmother (an unseen, but favourite character in Hillside) will have some answers relating to her mother’s death.  Tumi settles in Hillside and builds strong relationships, while still determined to solve the mystery about her past. Actress Linda Sokhulu grew up in Durban, Kwazulu-Natal, where she also kicked off her career in acting.  She started her journey in performing arts with acting workshops at The Natal Playhouse, where she landed her first roles in theatre, including Macbeth, Izwe lizothini and The Sky is Red. She later moved to Johannesburg to work with AREPP Theatre for Life and has done several theatre plays over the years, including Closer, You Fool, How Can The Sky Fall and Romeo and Juliet, to name a few. Linda Sokhulu’s television debut was as Nomasonto Cleo Khuzwayo in the soap opera Generations in 2005.  She later also played roles in Isidingo, Rhythm City and other South African soapies, and won a SAFTA award for Best Actress in Ubizo The Calling and Sokhulu and Partners. She’s done film work too, including Cutting Silence, Skyf and Felix. Linda has been nominated for a Best Supporting Actress SAFTA as well as an Africa Academy Movie Award for Best Actress. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.