Manchester United on Sunday said club management is aware of sexual abuse allegations levelled against star striker Mason Greenwood.  A spokesperson for the club said while they do not “condone violence of any kind”, further comment will only be made once “the facts have been established”.  This comes after “images and allegations” began circulating on social media which implicated the 20-year-old United academy graduate.  Greenwood’s girlfriend, Harriet Robson, said she was the victim of abuse at the striker’s hands and shared shocking photos on Instagram detailing her injuries.  With blood streaming from her lips, she said, “To everyone who wants to know what Mason Greenwood actually does to me.”  In one of the videos shared on her Stories, Robson’s face was severely bruised. Other images showed bruises on her arms and thighs. She also shared a graphic audio file of what appears to be Mason forcing her to have sex with him.  Robson has since deleted the posts from her Instagram feed.  Greenwood and Robson first began dating when they met at Mersey School in Greater Manchester; however, the couple parted ways in 2020.  Netizens expressed their outrage on Twitter, with one user saying Greenwood’s audio file should serve as a “reminder to everyone that consent exists in relationships as well”. “You never force or coerce your partners into having sex. No means f*** no”, @camstormf said, while another user added:  “Just woke up to the Greenwood news. So lost for words. No woman deserves to go through that abuse.” The user concluded:  “As a Man Utd fan think I speak for all here when I say Mason Greenwood should have his contract terminated immediately”. If you – or anyone you know – are exposed to sexual violence or assault of any kind, reach out to the TEARS foundation on 010 590 5920 or by dialling *134*7355#.  They can also be contacted via email atinfo@tears.co.za or through their website. Alternatively, locate the nearest centre to you.  Contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111, the Gender-Based Violence toll-free number on 0800 428 428, or Childline on 0800 055 555.