Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) MP Naledi Chirwa has shaken social media after calling President Cyril Ramaphosa a “weak little boy” on Monday morning. Responding to Ramaphosa’s weekly letter in which he called on South Africans to “protect our Constitution, our democratic state and the electoral process from anyone who wants to weaken our democracy and deny the South African people of their hard-won freedom”, Chirwa tweeted: “You’re such a weak little boy. All your fellow stooges you sent to collapse Lindiwe were collapsed themselves. It won’t be surprising if you do what little boys do when overpowered by women. Throw the tantrum, we are expecting it. You’ll forever remain a toothless boy. Mfana ke mfana.” “There isn’t a single thing the man has done that can ever warrant respect. Just because he has an honorable title doesn’t mean he is. Integrity is not a transaction and hierarchy will never equate steadfastness. Not all of us suffer from fear of powerful men. The problem is that you respect people for what they are and not who they are. “You can lie to yourselves about my nationality until you turn green in the buttocks. It will not make your lies the truth and neither will it ever silence me. I didn’t buy my voice. I’m not renting it either. Rest assured I will always speak and there’s nothing you can do about it,” continued an unrepentant Chirwa, making a number of allegations against the President. Chirwa has been highly criticised for “disrespecting” an elder, instead of debating the subject at hand. Some slammed her for calling Ramaphosa a “weak little boy”, while she has, in the past, shown respect to Enlightened Christian Gathering (ECG) leader Shepherd Bushiri, who has been accused of rape, money-laundering and fraud.   Bushiri has repeatedly denied the allegations.  In a video in 2019, Chirwa is seen at the front of his church as Bushiri prophesies to her and tells her she will one day become a great leader. He talks about politicians who go to his church before elections but never go back to testify after getting what they prayed for. “All these politicians come here and after elections they didn’t come and testify. The Lord will bless you. You will make a great leader. He will give you wisdom. Take more wisdom,” he says as he lays his hand on her head. Chirwa then falls and is picked back up at Bushiri’s request. “God will give you wisdom. They may fight you. I don’t know how you went up there. Follow your heart,” continues Bushiri to Chirwa’s agreement. “I receive, Papa,” she says several times in the video. READ MORE: EFF MP Naledi Chirwa stokes controversy after video with Bushiri emerges Some on social media have, however, jumped to her defence, saying she has exercised her freedom of speech. Her defenders said the current leaders did not deserve anyone’s respect.