In the last few years, Kaizer Chiefs has managed to produce some top talents who have graduated from the reserves playing in the DStv Diski Challenge (DDC) to the senior team, and now, Mduduzi Shabalala is set to be another great talent to come out of the club’s juniors. READ ALSO: Chiefs’ weakness is not having their fans at the stadium, says Galaxy coach on Nedbank tie The DDC, formerly known as the MultiChoice Diski Challenge (MDC), have seen the likes of Hendrik Eksteen, Njabulo Blom, Nkosigiphile Ngcobo, Wiseman Meyiwa (who retired from football after an accident), Siyabonga Ngezana and many more make their way to the top tier. Now, the time to shine has come for Shabalala to shine as the next coming Glamour Boy, who has done quite well in the DDC. His sterling performances for the Chiefs juniors have also earned him a place in the new DStv Compact Cup, where fans had to vote for players to make into four teams merged by all the 16 clubs in the DStv Premiership. Shabalala is part of the Warriors squad, which consists of players from Orlando Pirates, Swallows FC and TS Galaxy, which will be taking on Amabutho FC, which has players from AmaZulu FC, Royal AM, Maritzburg United and Golden Arrows. The teams will lock horns in the semi-final to be played at Moses Mabhida Stadium on Sunday. “I could not express how happy I was to have been part of the first team. The chance will come, I will get the opportunity to play for the first team. My family and Friends were very excited seeing my name on the team- sheet,” Shabalala was quoted on the Amakhosi website. “I am also pleased to be selected for the DStv Compact Cup, which means that I simply have to up my game. This performance is definitely a boost to my confidence before the DStv Compact Cup. Getting voted in shows that I am playing good football and that people love seeing me play. I will keep on fighting and doing the right things.” In the other semi-final, Coastal United (Cape Town City, Stellenbosch United, Chippa United and Baroka FC) will take on Dinaledi FC (SuperSport United, Mamelodi Sundowns, Marumo Gallants as well as Sekhukhune United FC) at the same venue.