Sunday saw the latest season of Big Brother Mzansi, hosted by Lawrence Maleka, host its first live eviction show.  The show opened with a performance by Venda superstar Makhadzi and her performance was followed by a recap of the week that was.The recap included a run-through of the tasks the housemates had to complete this week in addition to Keamogetswe Motlhale’s (aka QV) voluntary exit from the house.Viewers also got a reminder of which housemates were nominated for eviction as announced during the official nomination announcement show which aired during the week. This includes; Mvelo, Norman, Gash1, Themba and Acacia. The past week also saw former YFM DJ Tulz Madala win the “head of house” title. He chose to share the “head of house” bedroom with Naledi and the pair in turn chose Libo and Acacia to share the privilege with them while the other housemates shared the communal bedroom for the rest of the week.Although viewers have the option to vote to save their favourite housemate from elimination, there was no voting this week as Big Brother Mzansi producers decided against evicting anyone.Upon checking in with the housemates during the live show, Lawrence directly addressed the male housemates who spoke about the female housemate in a manner that left viewers unimpressed.  Housemates were unaware of this twist and were under the impression that they were headed home for a better part of Sunday evening.  Enter the back-up housemate.  Big Brother Mzansi viewers were introduced to the incredibly tall Nthabiseng who was brought into the house, presumably in place of QV who left during the week.  She entered the house, much to the surprise of the other housemates who had no idea what was happening as they were still under the impression that someone among their ranks was heading home.  The surprises kept coming as Nthabi was not the only housemate joining the show. She was joined by Vyno Miller – a music producer and self-proclaimed ladies man – who was unveiled later during the live show.  The past and previous Big Brother Mzansi housemates got to know each other as the live eviction show progressed, with the first batch of housemates taking the new housemates through what to expect as they enter the house.  They were eventually let off the hook at the end of the live show when Lawrence finally let them know that no one would be going home. However, the host confirmed someone would be going home during next week’s live eviction show.