All eyes are on the tennis champion, Novak Djokovic, who is set to spend the coming weekend in a secure detention hotel in Melbourne, Australia as his legal team tries to convince the court to let him take part in the Australian Open, starting on 17 January. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The nine-time Australian Open champion and the men’s tennis world number one, Novak Djokovic shared a post on Instagram two days ago, saying that he is heading Down Under “with an exemption permission.”  Yet, according to the Australian Prime Minister, Scott Morrison the tennis champ did not have a valid medical exemption to the vaccination requirement for all arrivals. The Australian Border Force has released a statement saying that Novak Djokovic’s visa has been cancelled. According to CNN, the 34-year-old travelled to Melbourne after the tournament organisers and the Victoria Department of Health said that he had been granted a medical exemption to play, but he was blocked at the border and told that he had not met the required entry rules considering the current Covid-19 regulations. Although she often struggles with the limelight that comes with being married to a tennis champion,  his entrepreneur and humanitarian wife Jelena (35), sees herself as Novak’s number one fan.  On her Facebook page, she has been sharing various articles on the current situation relating to her husband’s visa cancellation, saying that she “has no comments to say” and that “there is no giving up.” READ: Djokovic appeals deportation after Australia cancels visa In May last year, Djokovic said that Covid-19 vaccination is a matter of choice.  “I will keep the decision as to whether I am going to get vaccinated or not to myself. It’s an intimate decision, and I don’t want to go into this game of pro and against vaccines, which the media is unfortunately creating these days,” he said.  According to Reuters, he has also said that he is opposed to vaccination and wouldn’t want to be forced by someone to take a vaccine in order to be able to travel. Jelena shared a video claiming that 5G helped cause the Coronavirus shortly after Djokovic’s above statement, for which she was later given a ‘false information’ label by Instagram. Novak and Jelena share two children. They got engaged in 2013 and married on an island called St Stefan. In 2014, they welcomed a son and fittingly called him Stefan and their daughter, Tara was born three years later. The Djokovices rarely share photos of their children on social media and Jelena seems to feel quite strongly about the dangers that social media bring into children’s lives.  “Everybody is online. Predators are watching our kids and contacting them. Kids are bullying each other and daring them to do some really crazy things – including suicides,” she once wrote in an Instagram post. Jelena has been devoted to supporting her husband and raising their children. She is also the director of their charity, the Novak Djokovic Foundation, which helps Serbian children reach their dreams by improving the country’s education system.