Mega star Robyn Rihanna Fenty is pregnant with her first child and she showed off her baby bump in true Rihanna style while strolling through New York with her boyfriend, rapper A$ap Rocky.  Social media all but came to a standstill when the photos started circulating.  According to E! News, this pregnancy news comes two years after the longtime friends ignited romance rumours. “The speculation, which followed shortly after her split from Hassan Jameel, started after the stars were spotted spending time together in NYC,” reports the publication, who also said Rihanna wasn’t looking for a serious relationship at the time. This will be the first child for both Rihanna and A$ap who are the same age, 33.  The Fenty founder has been subject to pregnancy rumours throughout her career. The most recent rumours were sparked in December 2021 and she denied the rumours in an Instagram direct message. “Y’all breed me every year dammit,” wrote Rihanna in a DM to a fan named Jen. Rihanna has expressed her desire to be a mother in previous interviews and stated that she would do so when she felt ready, even if she did not have a partner in her life.  Rihanna has previously been romantically linked to rapper Drake, businessman Hasan Jameel, Real Madrid soccer star Karim Benzem and musician Chris Brown.  A$ap Rocky has previously been linked to Kendall Jenner, Love and Hip Hop star Tahiry Jose, Rita Ora and Chanel Iman. Born Rakim Athelaston Mayers on October 3, 1988, A$AP Rocky is a world-famous rapper and record producer from Manhattan, New York. The 33-year-old star is a member of the hip hop collective A$AP Mob, from which he adopted his moniker. Me seeing this Rihanna news pic.twitter.com/ITRGjaQNN2— philip lewis (@Phil_Lewis_) January 31, 2022 OMFG RIHANNA IS WITH CHILD IM GOING TO BE AN AUNT THANK U GOD ???????????????????????????????????????? Congrats sis I’m soooo happy!!!!! pic.twitter.com/rvw4RqUblc— BIA (@BIABIA) January 31, 2022 Drake waking up and seeing why Rihanna trending pic.twitter.com/QIZhnKv4rT— Thee Stallion’s Whoreˣ⁴ (@Depressed_Bihhh) January 31, 2022 Rihanna is pregnant and I’m not the baby ????— Shameless. (@Shamiso_) January 31, 2022 rihanna’s baby when she/he sees who the mother is pic.twitter.com/1gPxdazNTW— chu (@chuuzus) January 31, 2022