With reports of a first ever SVR model continuing to linger, a series of patent images previewing the new Land Rover Defender 130 have emerged online ahead of the model’s world debut this year. The confirmation made by Jaguar-Land Rover (JLR) last year after rumours began emerging in 2019, the drawings, obtained by autoweek.nl, shows the extended rear overhang reports allege will result in an overall length of 5 100 mm. Contrary to its designation in inches, the 130 will measure 201 inches in overall length, tough its wheelbase will be identical to the 110. It will however measure 340 mm longer overall and based on the autoweek report, 100 mm longer than the Range Rover Sport. In a departure from the previous generation, and as indicated by the drawings, the new 130 will no longer offer a bakkie-style loadbay despite reports of a such model becoming reality. Instead, the extension of the 110 will house a third row and therefore provide seating for seven underneath a solid roof. ALSO READ: It is coming: Land Rover approves Defender 130 While the rear section is anticipated to differ slightly from the 110 inside, the layout of the dashboard is unlikely to change, with the same applying to features and specifications levels. Up front, the 130 will retain the same range of petrol, diesel, mild-hybrid and plug-in hybrid drivertrains as the 90 and 110, all paired to the ZF-sourced eight-speed automatic gearbox. “We are making sure we are stretching upwards enough and distinguishing the products and these families enough to make sure there is no confusion,” Land Rover CEO Thierry Bollore was quoted by Automotive News Europe as saying last year. Despite an official date of reveal being unknown at present, prior reports hinting at a waiting period of between 12 to 18 months has sparked speculation of a likely unveiling in August. Based on spy images by carscoops.com and motor1.com of the prototype undergoing testing last year, the mentioned month could well be accurate. However, expect clearer details and possible official teasers to emerge before then.