Famous author Deon Meyer has been enjoying the little things (which are seemingly the big things) in life lately, sharing glimpses of special moments – especially ones with his grandchild – with fans and friends on social media. The brain behind books like Fever (an international bestseller), The Dark Flood and the book turned television series Trackers is always excited to share photos of himself with his grandchild.  He recently posted a photo on Instagram, saying: “Grandpa is back in business.” A post shared by Deon Meyer (@deon.meyer.author) Meyer’s grandson Matteo Masini was born in March last year and the author posted a photo of the 3-day-old boy peacefully lying on his grandpa’s chest, with the caption: “Meet my beautiful grandson. Matteo Masini. Three days old. Overwhelming.” A post shared by Deon Meyer (@deon.meyer.author) In May 2021, the author who was made a French knight in April last year, shared another photo of him and his grandson, saying: “Matteo is here, and for this grandpa the world is suddenly just perfect.” READ: Deon Meyer: I wrote about ‘Zuma’ because I was very angry During the same visit, the author jumped at the opportunity to teach little Matteo a love for newspapers from an early age.  “It seems to be working,” he said in the caption accompanying a photo of him and Matteo attentively studying the newspaper at the breakfast table. It was in June last year that they were once again reunited in Poggio Nativo, Italy and where little Matteo stole his grandpa’s heart all over again. In a photo shared onto Meyer’s Instagram feed, the little boy wore a babygrow with the words: “Grandpa’s partner in crime fiction” written on it. The two are clearly peas in a pod, and one can only imagine the stories they will share as the Italian born Matteo gets older. In addition to his regular grandpa posts, Meyer also enthusiastically posts experiences from his travels with his wife, Marianne (also known as The Flying Marianne) on social media, as well as pics from their mountain bike adventures in some of South Africa’s most beautiful spots.