Superb centuries by Temba Bavuma and Rassie van der Dussen laid the platform, but then South Africa called on all their deposits of character and composure in the field as they beat India by 31 runs in the first ODI at Boland Park in Paarl on Wednesday. Captain Bavuma, having won the toss and elected to bat, found himself at the crease in just the fifth over as a flatfooted Janneman Malan (6) was caught behind off Jasprit Bumrah. Bavuma was patient on a tricky pitch, getting himself in, but South Africa found themselves in trouble on 68/3 when a scratchy Quinton de Kock (27) and Aiden Markram, who ran himself out for 4, were dismissed. But enter Van der Dussen and he and Bavuma added a magnificent 204 for the fourth wicket, a record for South Africa against India, off just 190 deliveries. Bavuma provided the solid foundation for the impressive total of 296/4, scoring a wonderfully controlled 110 off 143 balls, working the ball around the field with aplomb. ALSO READ:  Bavuma, Van der Dussen go big for Proteas in first ODI Van der Dussen, despite coming in at a tough time with ace spinners Ravichandran Ashwin and Yuzvendra Chahal bowling on a slow pitch that made scoring difficult, was quickly off and running. His half-century came at a run-a-ball as he played with marvellous skill and shot-selection, using sweeps to great effect. Having reached a sublime century, Van der Dussen was able to change gears at the death, hitting four sixes and finishing on a magnificent, career-best 129 not out off 96 balls, his last 29 runs coming off just 13 deliveries. Chasing what would have been a record score at Boland Park, Shikhar Dhawan (79) and Virat Kohli (51) laid an excellent platform as they took India to 137/1 at the halfway stage. But Keshav Maharaj (10-0-42-1), ever the fighter, then turned a delivery sharply out of the rough to bowl Dhawan and get the Proteas back in the game. Once they had a sniff, they were relentless. The key wicket of Kohli would come just three overs later as a change of pace from Tabraiz Shamsi (10-1-52-2) saw him toe-end a sweep to short midwicket. Aggressive short-pitched bowling from Lungi Ngidi (10-0-64-2) then removed Shreyas (17) and Venkatesh Iyer (17), both on the hook. The end of India’s hopes would come when De Kock pulled off an outstanding leg-side stumping off Andile Phehlukwayo (5-0-26-2) to dismiss Rishabh Pant for 16. Shardul Thakur swung hard at the death to score 50 not out off 43 balls, but South Africa’s composure was unfailing.