After all these years, it’s starting to seem as though your relationship with AKA is not official until he takes you on his annual baecation to somewhere tropical or, at the very least, somewhere with a pool.  In fact, this annual baecation is often how fans confirm his rumoured relationships – by comparing backgrounds and spotting random body parts like feet or toes in some obscure part of the pictures posted on social media. This year, that rumoured girlfriend is fellow rapper Nadia Nakai who is holidaying at an undisclosed location in the Western Cape.  They compared a picture that AKA posted of himself lounging on the poolside deck of the place where he is staying to a picture posted by Nadia Nakai showing herself looking gorgeous in a printed swimsuit at the poolside deck wherever she is staying.  The pair also started their days by reading books as evidenced by Instagram stories they posted on Wednesday morning.  ALSO READ: Why people think Nadia Nakai and AKA could be dating This trip, believed to be an annual baecation, comes after the pair sparked rumours last week when AKA posted and deleted a picture of Nadia. She then posted a picture of a new Rolex that she received. Social media users were under the impression that the expensive timepiece was a gift from AKA.  Rumours of their relationship aren’t without controversy as it was just last year that AKA’s late fiancée jumped to her death from a hotel in Cape Town.  In early 2016, AKA and Bonang travelled to Mozambique after the smoke cleared following the aftermath of the scandalous start to their relationship.  Fans had to compare pictures and backgrounds then.  In 2019, when he and DJ Zinhle reunited following his break-up with Bonang and brief dalliance with Nicole Nyaba, the couple travelled to Turkey. They then went to Cape Town and another unnamed tropical location after that.  Due to the fact that the country was under lockdown for most of their relationship, it doesn’t seem as though Nellie and AKA went on a major annual baecation. However, they did travel around South Africa when his late fiancée accompanied him to events he was booked to perform at. In fact, they were on such a trip when tragedy struck.