As shocking news of the death of the revered actor Patrick Shai continued yesterday to shake the entertainment industry, the department of sport arts and culture has lauded him for being vocal in the fight against gender-based violence and femicide (GBVF).  In what has been described as a suicide – baffling many people – Shai’s family confirmed his passing, requesting privacy to mourn his death.  Paying tribute to Shai, department of sport arts and culture spokesperson Masechaba Ndlovu said government “learnt with sadness, the passing of veteran actor Patrick Shai”.  ALSO READ: Patrick Shai: Reports of actor’s suicide rock social media She said: “As a self-confessed reformed abuser, Shai was exceptionally vocal in the fight against gender-based violence and femicide and was a prominent ambassador of the Golekane campaign.  “He committed his life in the fight against GBVF, was a prominent ambassador of the kgolekane campaign – an anti GBVF behavioural change intervention programme of the department, aimed at encouraging progressive conversations among men.”  Known for starring in television productions such as Bophelo ke Semphekgo – a popular Sepedi drama set in the 1980s, where he played the role of Nkwesheng, Shai’s acting career spanned decades and included stage and film.  “Mr Shai went on to secure a place in the South African Hall of Fame, with roles in numerous productions such as Soul City, Generations, Zero Tolerance and Yizo Yizo.  “He featured as a lead character in feature films such as Critical Assignment and Cry the Beloved Country.”  He was nominated for the 2014 South African Film and Television Award and in the best supporting actor category for his role in Skeem Saam, again in 2018 for his role in 7de Laan and most recently in The River where he played the role of Mr Phasha.  “The department extends its deepest sympathies to the Shai family, friends, fans and the entire creative community at large,” she said.  “The most fitting way in which we can honour his legacy is to continue these conversations that men should be having with their boy children – to stand up and take charge in the fight against GBVF and to say enough is enough.”  Shai will be buried in Soweto on Saturday. NOW READ: Family confirms Patrick Shai’s passing