Premier Soccer League (PSL) prosecutor Zola Majavu has revealed that the incident involving Orlando Pirates and TS Galaxy chairman has been postponed due to Buc’s witness not being present. ALSO READ: Unsettled Pirates midfielder Ndlovu may head back to MaritzburgMajavu further revealed that Pirates pleaded not guilty for the charge against them. Sukazi laid a complaint with the PSL after he was denied entry to the dressing rooms during the Buccaneers and the Rockets’ clash at the Orlando Stadium late last year. Videos of the incident showing the Galaxy chairman being denied entry went viral on social media.  Pirates were charged last week for misconduct, but now with their witness, believed to be club media officer Thandi Merafe out of the country, the case will continue next month. “A further update on the DC hearings that were enrolled for earlier this afternoon and the better part of tonight (Wednesday). The first case is that one of misconduct charges levelled against Orlando Pirates arising from an incident with Mr Tim Sukazi, the chairman of TS Galaxy. Charges were formally put to Orlando Pirates, and to which they pleaded not guilty,” said Majavu. “The matter had to be postponed to the 15th of February for evidence to be led. One of the main witnesses of Orlando Pirates is currently out of the country on Caf business and under the circumstances, the committee didn’t imprudent to grant a postponement to the 15th February where the matter will resume and hopefully proceed to be finalised. Once it is finalised I will give a further update on the outcome thereof.” Meanwhile, Majavu also gave an update on the Golden Arrows for fielding an eligible player. “The second case pertains to charges leveled against Golden Arrows Football Club arising from fielding what we contend to be an eligible player, Mr Simo Bright Mbhele. That matter was adjured fully before the DC and judgment has been reserved. As soon as judgment has been handed down by the DC, I will once again communicate it. In the intervening period and as always, I will not be drawn in any running commentary on these matters or others that are yet to be processed, which are still in the pipeline,” he concluded.