As if we haven’t celebrated enough already, the opportunity to celebrate love is around the corner and what better way to do it than with a romantic weekend away? This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Here are five idyllic spots to break away to for Valentine’s Day this year: Located in the Madikwe Game Reserve, TAU Game Lodge is one of those luxury lodges where you not only get spoilt rotten, but where you are also ensured of great sightings when it comes to wildlife. The lodge might be named after the lion, but from experience, this is also where you get the best elephant encounters, especially with it being located at one of the game reserve’s popular watering holes. Of course, the lodge also boasts ample opportunities for romance. Think dining under the stars, cocktails in the bush and romantic breakfasts overlooking the waterhole. Not to mention safari game drives with sightings of a myriad of game, including the Big 5 and smaller game like the African Wild Dog. The five-star, family-friendly lodge has a Valentine’s package running, which is valid for the whole month of February. It costs R22,000 per couple and includes: The package excludes park entrance fees, the tourism levy, extras like the mini bar, bar and laundry and the Rhino Conservation Levy. READ: Ancient Bhutan trail opens again after 60 years Celebrate love and romance in style at the most exclusive address in Joburg. Spoil your partner with a night or two at the very first voco™ hotel in Africa, which launches on the first of February at Rosebank’s latest architectural gem and mixed-use building, The Bank. This brand-new hotel is said to take space, sophistication and artistry to a whole new level, which is why it’s the ideal spot for a romantic city getaway over Valentine’s if you’re looking for something fresh and luxurious. Voco™ The Bank boasts a range of beautifully appointed rooms and suites, featuring the thoughtful, relaxed and unstuffy design that the voco™ brand has become known for, as well as an enviable collection of original artwork. Do things a little differently this Valentine’s Day by trying something new. Do the voco™ life with your other half and dine at the hotel’s on-site, mid-century inspired all-day eatery, Proud Mary which is located on the ground floor of The Bank’s building. Or, better yet, enjoy in-room dining by selecting your favourites from Proud Mary’s innovative menu. They offer delicious small plates, salads, grills and a boutique wine list you’d struggle to find elsewhere. P.S. Keep an eye out for upcoming Valentine’s offerings.  Celebrate Valentine’s Day at one of the country’s most unusual hotels this year. The Turbine Boutique Hotel and Spa, located on Thesen Island in Knysna is housed in what used to be a power station and apart from its unique and quirky décor, it boasts an elegant Island Café restaurant, a cosy Gastro Pub, self-catering suites, a honeymoon suite, the Turbine Spa and wonderful activities for adventurous couples at the Turbine Water Club. They are offering a two-night special at R5,190 per room, which is valid for 11 and 12 February only, including bed and breakfast, a 45-minute couples back, neck and shoulder massage at the Turbine Spa and a romantic turndown platter. They also have a one-night special at R2,850 per room, valid only for 12 February, which also includes bed and breakfast and the same spa treatment. Located close to Dullstroom, Walkerson’s Hotel and Spa is an easy romantic getaway for those living in Gauteng. The five-star boutique hotel is located on 800 hectares of peaceful countryside, offering pristine scenery and fly-fishing in Dullstroom’s famous trout dams. Not to mention the delicious cuisine at The Flying Scotsman and The Terrace restaurants, which both cater for hotel guests and day visitors alike. Pack your bags and head on a romantic road trip up North, and make use of Walkersons’ 35% discount on a two-night stay (11 and 12 February). They will also be offering a special Valentine’s menu for Valentine’s, including a complimentary glass of bubbly at dinner and a small gift to celebrate. P.S. The 35% discount is valid for the whole month of February, but the romantic trimmings will only be offered on Valentine’s weekend. Based in the De Hoop Nature Reserve, the De Hoop Collection offers world-class whale watching and accommodation options designed to suit all budgets, as well as wonderful outdoor activities and of course, a great Valentine’s Day weekend special. Share one of De Hoop’s suites with your Valentine for two nights, enjoy romantic dinners at The Fig Tree Restaurant and breakfasts on the veranda watching the birds on the vlei come out to play for R4450 per couple per night. This includes dinner, bed and breakfast and a complimentary bird walk for those who enjoy birdwatching. The special is valid for the whole of February. Some more affordable than others, these are all Valentine’s offers worth considering.