Wicketkeeper Quinton de Kock and his wife Sasha have just welcomed their firstborn – a baby girl – into the world. This follows the cricket player’s retirement with immediate effect from Test cricket after the Proteas lost their first of three Tests against India in Centurion in December. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. De Kock would not have been available for the second and third Tests due to the birth of their daughter in any case and in his retirement statement, he said that he wanted to spend more time with his growing family.  “My family is everything to me and I want the time and space to be able to be with them during this new and exciting chapter of our lives.” READ: De Kock announces retirement from Test cricket The couple’s daughter, Kiara, was born on 6 January 2022, weighing 2.9kg and by the looks of things, her parents couldn’t be prouder. “Welcome to the world our beautiful daughter,” her mother wrote in an Instagram post. “How’s it, my name is Kiara,” the 29-year-old De Kock captioned the picture of his brand-new family of three. Although De Kock has retired from Test cricket, he will still be available for ODIs and T20s, but his decision to prioritise his wife and baby girl is evident. In the photos announcing their daughter’s birth, the proud dad is seen holding his daughter tightly, while mother Sasha (26) looks completely content with the arrival of their little miracle. The couple met at the Champions League Twenty20 match between the Highveld Lions and the Mumbai Indians in 2012, where she was a cheerleader during the match. Quinton and Shasha got engaged in December 2015 and got married in September 2016. They announced Sasha’s pregnancy to the public on Instagram on 11 July last year. Sasha has always been seen as very passionate about cricket, supporting her man. She is said to love travelling, fishing, boating and even shooting and has a very soft spot for animals, especially dogs. We can’t wait to see what their two dog children have to say about the new arrival in their home.