David Scott, better known by his stage name The Kiffness, has taken to social media saying that out of all the collabs he has done thus far, the collab with his wife Jüte, which resulted in their baby boy, is his favourite.   This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. “Welcome to the world, Sam Scott!” the musician wrote. “Witnessing the birth of my baby boy is the wildest, most beautiful and proudest moment of my life. Jüte and I are beyond blessed to have welcomed Sam into this world on the 8th of Jan and we’re just so excited to be his parents.” He even shared a video of the little munchkin, fast asleep. “We love you our little boy! Out of all the collabs your daddy has done, this one with your mommy is by far my favourite.” READ: Quinton de Kock and wife Sasha welcome birth of first child The Kiffness is widely known for his unique collabs, including the most obscure, yet catchy beats in collaboration with various artists and even cats and horses. His song with Bilal Goregen went viral with over 15 million combined views. The Finnish song was originally performed by Turk Bilal Goregen and now features a worldwide remix by The Kiffness that has made the Turkish News, charted on Italy’s Shazam Top 200 Chart and even reached classrooms of children in China. His Soulful Singing Cat Live Looping Remix has almost 5 million views on YouTube alone, featuring Alugalug Cat and The Kiffness. He has also done a drum and bass remix featuring Bhuban Badyakar from India which has over 4 million views on YouTube. And, he couldn’t resist a collab with a horse that loves his squeaky chicken toy, turning it into a “techno banger” called Techno Horse X The Kiffness, to which someone commented: “I’m glad you guys are having a kid, the world needs more people like you!” Perhaps a collab with a crying baby is next. Who knows?