Media personality Bonang Matheba is not letting this one go easily. The star is still persisting with her lawsuit against podcaster Rea Gopane.  If you recall, in May 2021, Rea made damning allegations on his YouTube channel against the presenter. Alleging that “everyone” in the entertainment industry knows that Bonang “introduced AKA to cocaine”.  Bonang began by sending a letter of demand to Rea in pursuit of an apology and retraction, failing which, he would be sued for R500,000 in damages. Gopane did apologise but Bonang decided to continue seeking the money for damages. It seems the legal process is still going ahead after Bonang tweeted Rea on Tuesday, which may be deemed antagonising despite her wishing him “good luck”. People were taken aback by Bonang bringing up the issue again and were surprised by the fact she wasn’t willing to forgive him and move on.  She further indicated that the court dates for this case are near.  Rea responded: “The incomparable Bonang Matheba is still mad she took a shot and missed last year. Thanks but I don’t need your good luck. See you soon mom.” Despite the civil case, Rea has continued to criticise Bonang.  The podcaster said in October 2021 that the celebrity isn’t as “smart as she thinks she is”. “What I want to say is Bonang is not as smart as she thinks she is. All she’s good at is… the fan base that she has… to attack people. She’s been doing it for a couple of years.” He added that her lawyers had repeatedly called him for months and accused her of being afraid to go “after the big boys”. Tweeps have shared that Bonang should learn to let things go. However, in another argument, her supporters say people should learn to watch what they say on their platforms.  The Citizen spoke to an attorney, Sulandi du Plessis, on the matter and Du Plessis said that Bonang’s legal team needs to quantify if there will be income losses incurred by the Bonang Matheba brand due to the allegation.  After sending the letter of demand that the R500,000 needed to be paid within 10 days, she never received that money.