Actor, media personality and choreographer Somizi Mhlongo might not look a day older than 35, but the former Idols Judge recently became a ‘Grootman’ to the cutest little girl. Somizi’s daughter Bahumi Madisakwane recently took to Instagram to share the sweetest video clip of her father rocking and kissing his new “grandbaby”. The 4-month-old baby girl, Shona Twala is the daughter of family friends of Somizi and Bahumi, who has been the perfect doting aunt, even starting an Instagram account for her adorable little ‘niece’. Somizi, who has been vacationing in the Western Cape with friends and family, has his fans green with envy every time he shares snaps of his luxurious Cape Town holiday on Instagram. ALSO READ: Celebs who went to the Western Cape this festive season While the main activity on the 49-year-old’s holiday agenda seems to have been sipping Champagne, lapping up the sun, and serving looks, he also had his turn babysitting his new “grandbaby”. He is definitely the coolest granddad anyone can ask for, judging by the dance videos he has been sharing. For a ‘Grootman’ Somizi’s hips are very loose and his moves are envied by 18-year-olds everywhere, but as a choreographer we should know that dancing is a big part of his life. His fans and followers were also really glad to see him so happy and having such a great time. 2021 was a difficult year for the media personality, after he was fired from his job at both Idols and Kaya 959 following abuse allegations against him by his ex Mohale Motaung. 2022 looks to be a much brighter year for him as production for his reality show Living the Dream with Somizi will be resuming. The series, which kicked off in 2018, has been confirmed for a fourth season. The reality show will follow the flamboyant entertainer around as he juggles life, and while he has been very quiet about the details around the filming of this new season, we can’t help but wonder if the video clips of him racing up a Cape Town street in different coloured Ferrari’s could actually be a sneak preview of what we can expect to see in this new reality show.