The ninth season of popular South African dating show Date My Family ended on a high note that saw episode 22 of season nine trend well into Monday morning.  The episode followed 29-year-old Mantsha, a student and caterer from Polokwane, as she got to know three different families in an effort to find out if their bachelors were the man she has been looking for.  The first family was representing a bachelor named Brandon, 32, who they described as a chilled, funny hustler who is a father of one.The real estate agent said he was looking for someone with a good heart who loves children.  Mantsha told the Date My Family producers that she was also looking for someone who was fond of children as she has a five-year-old son.  Upon first impression, Brandon and his family noted that Mantsha looked “quite old” because of how she was dressed but he added that he did not mind this. Their evening got off to quite an awkward start but as the evening progressed, they seemed to warm up to each other and conversation began to flow. Where they differed was their position on “mommy’s boys”.  The second family belonged to Mashudu; a 27-year-old Venda man who needs a hard-working partner with morals.  The entrepreneur listed long-term relationships as his deal-breaker but seemed open to dating women in any bracket. His family also expressed shock at her appearance as they also feel as though she looked older than Mashudu.  Things were going well until his family admitted that he had cheated twice in previous relationships. This left Mantsha a bit concerned as she believes a leopard doesn’t change its spots.  The final family described their bachelor Kat (Katlego) as energetic and crazy and said that a woman who doesn’t take herself too seriously would be perfect for him. The comedian, who goes by the stage name Katridge, said he loves laughing and socialising and described his ideal woman as someone “well behaved”, respectful, short and “yellow”. YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE: Kasi Mlungu finds love with Date My Family bachelor The 30-year-old said he didn’t mind dating a woman with children but his cousin was adamant that this is not the case.  In fact, it was this family that got tongues wagging on social media because of how Kat’s cousin, Hamilton, expressed himself. Date My Family viewers collectively dubbed the last family “annoying”. It was this conduct that made Mantsha decide that she would not be continuing the evening and getting to know Kat through them.She explained that she has a child and, therefore, feels as though she is not the woman for Kat and would rather not waste time continuing the evening.  The fact that Kat’s brother and cousin were contradicting each other also made her feel as though they do not know him as well as they thought they did.  Kat said he understood her decision based on what he saw his brother and cousin saying.  Mantsha ended up going with Mashudu. She explained that she chose not to go with Brandon because of how his family asked too many questions and made the “date” seem like an inquisition. A decision she came to regret.  After their date, she concluded that Mashudu is selfish and decided against a second date because of how he answered her question about cheating.  The last episode of Date My Family is currently available on the ‘Catch Up’ section of the DStv now app and on DStv catch up until mid-February.The show will be replaced by the upcoming season of Big Brother Mzansi.  READ NEXT: Lawrence Maleka to host the new season of ‘Big Brother Mzansi’