The Lions are hoping to keep building momentum and put in a clinical performance against a Springbok-laden Sharks in their United Rugby Championship match at Ellis Park on Saturday afternoon (kickoff 3pm). Although both teams have had over a month break since their last match, the Lions and Sharks will hope to pick up where they left off after they beat the Stormers and Bulls respectively in early December. “The big thing for us against the Stormers was we were very clinical. Every opportunity we had we almost turned it into points and that’s exactly what we want this weekend again against the Sharks,” said Lions captain Burger Odendaal. “I think they pride themselves on playing off scraps, they force other teams to make mistakes and play off that. So hopefully we can be clinical and keep them out of the game.” ALSO READ: Stormers name co-captains for Bulls clash, URC campaign It is a powerful Sharks team that is making the trip to Johannesburg with most of their Bok stars back, including a dangerous backline and strong forward pack that will be looking to dominate. “It’s not a coincidence that the outside backs, 11, 13, 14 and 15 are all Springboks. I think that speaks a lot to their kicking and counter attack game, so it is a very settled and experienced backline,” said Lions coach Ivan van Rooyen. “Their pack also has Boks in Ox (Nche) and Thomas (du Toit), so there is a lot of strength in their set piece and the combination they have selected at loose forward adds to the intensity and intent in how they want to play. “So I think they have quality across the board and their team selection speaks to the way they want to play.” ALSO READ: Rookie flank to make URC Bulls debut against Stormers The match could be a close one and could come down to a kicking battle in the end, which bodes well for the Lions who have the monster boot of young Tiaan Swanepoel back from injury on the bench. “Obviously his x-factor is his big boot. I think he slotted a couple from 65m in captains (run) today,” said Van Rooyen. “So depending on where we are in the game and what we need he is definitely someone that through his kicking game and unpredictability can change the game if needed.”