That Zozi Tunzi reign just won’t let up!  The longest-reigning Miss Universe made the announcement on Instagram along with a fitting picture of herself adorned in an outfit made from coffee bean trivia shells.  “I am so honoured and excited to announce that I have been cast for the film, The Woman King. It is a completely new world and [a] first-time experience for me so I enter it with the utmost respect and humility. Forever grateful and looking forward,” she wrote.  Miss South Africa alumni Liesl Laurie and Shudu Musida were among those who congratulated Zozi Tunzi, in addition to public figures like Khanyi Mbau, Celeste Ntuli and Minnie Dlamini, to name a few.  Zozi Tunzi is the latest South African to be cast on the upcoming film alongside stars like Thuso Mbedu, Seputla Sebogodi and Makgotso Monyemorathoe (popularly known as Makgotso M). In fact, Makgotso’s casting in the film caused quite the controversy a few weeks ago when the public suggested that she may have only gotten the role because her best friend, Thuso Mbedu, is part of the project.  Mbedu shut down the speculation by tweeting that her friend got the role in The Woman King on her own accord.  “Mak got a brief. She auditioned and got the role. I am very proud of umngani wami (my friend) because she deserves all that’s good that the world has to offer. All credit goes to her. No ladders here.” According to The Hollywood Reporter, The Woman King is inspired by true events that took place in the Kingdom of Dahomey, one of the most powerful states of Africa in the 18th and 19th centuries. The story follows Nanisca (played by Viola Davis, who is also producing the film), the general of an all-female military unit, and Nawi (Thuso Mbedu), an ambitious recruit. Together, the pair fight enemies who violated their honour, enslaved their people and threatened to destroy everything they’ve lived for. Star Wars actor John Boyega will play Dahomey’s ruler, King Ghezo. Davis is part of the film’s production team alongside the likes of Cathy Schulman, Julius Tennon, Maria Bello and Jack Blue. Director of Netflix’s ‘The Old Guard’ Gina Prince-Bythewood has been hired to direct the film. The Woman King will reportedly be filmed in Cape Town.