Pets have become an increasingly popular search item on social media and  even more so when they come with the bonus of a celeb by their side. We all get drawn into the urge to share pictures of our pets and their personalities on social media and so do celebs. How cute are these celebrity pets? This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Willem Botha recently celebrated the third birthday of his Yorkshire Terrier, Seven, saying that never in his wildest dreams would he ever have thought that a 3kg little animal would change his life. “She is my biggest smile and energy when I get home from a long trip. My joy and my life,” he captioned the carousel of pet pictures on his feed. Demi-Leigh Tebow and her husband Tim have also never kept their love for dogs a secret. In fact, her Instagram feed is often filled with photos of their dog children. They also celebrated their doggies’ second birthdays this month. Kobe, Princess Paris and Chunky Bunky, as she lovingly refers to them in their birthday post, all seem to have a royal life with the Tebows. “How can it be that my sweet angel pies are 2?” writes Demi-Leigh. “You guys bring me more joy than I ever thought imaginable, and I truly could not imagine a day without each of you in it.” READ: Remember to vaccinate your pets against rabies Melinda Bam and Adriaan Bergh’s French Bulldogs have their own Instagram page called Rover & Ruby the Frenchies. If you’re looking for a pick-me-up, a quick scroll through these two celebrity pets’ Insta-feed will definitely do the trick. You’ll find it hard not to fall in love with these two faces! Singer Elizma Theron and her husband also recently surprised their kids with the cutest French Bulldog puppy. “All four of us are in love with the new addition. Meet Clyde (we’re planning to get him a Bonnie later), our French Bulldog,” she writes. Presenter Liezel van der Westhuizen clearly also has a soft spot for dogs, often posing for the camera with one or more four-legged friends beside her. Her mother recently captured her blissfully basking in the sun with two rescue pups, Luke and Leia on her lap. Many things might have changed over the last couple of years, but one thing has stayed true: A dog is a man’s best friend.