The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has revealed 276 feature films that are eligible for consideration for Best Picture at the 94th Oscars, which will be aired live from the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood on 27 March this year. Moffie, a South African war drama has also been included in the list. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Moffie is set in 1981 during South Africa’s border conflict with communist-backed Angola and started screening in March 2020. It revolves around a conscript who must embark on compulsory military service. Scenes accurately portray how boys were taught who to love and who to hate and the effect it had on their emotional state. In the movie, Nicholas (Kai Luke Brümmer) is an 18-year-old English-speaking boy struggling to come to terms with his sexuality. Toxic masculinity has the upper hand in dorms, showers and out in the field and derogatory slurs are evident in most scenes. When a situation between a same sex couple arises in the camp, the consequences are bone-chilling and Nicholas realises that he has no choice but to hide his true self now, more than ever. READ: Oscar winners in main categories When he meets a fellow conscript, Dylan Stassen (Ryan de Villiers) the film takes on a softer tone, giving the viewer a glimpse of their companionship. Moffie talks to topics including homophobia, racism and toxic masculinity and serves as a true eye-opener globally. It’s also an impressive conversation starter when it comes to prejudice and ignorance. The film won The Mermaid Award (best LGBTQI-themed film) at the Thessaloniki International Film Festival and was nominated for the Orizzonti Prize and the Queer Lion Award at the Venice International Film Festival. It received a six-minute-long standing ovation at the Venice Film Festival. The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (Ampas) members have time to vote until tomorrow, whereafter the final nominees will be announced on 8 February. Oliver Hermanus’ latest film, Living is currently being screened at the Sundance Film Festival and has been receiving a lot of praise. According to Variety, his next project is a gay drama called The History of Sound. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.