Those who missed Saturday’s “national lunch date” between Pearl Thusi and Michael Bucwa are catching up on what happened through the account of a content creator who live-streamed the proceedings.  The date came about after Michael (popularly known as Mr Smeg) shot his shot (as he often does) by asking Pearl out on a date. Michael is known as Mr Smeg due to his insistence on including a kettle and other appliances from the high-end Italian kitchen appliance brand in photos posted to his social media accounts. “Hi @PearlThusi, May I take you out for lunch?” tweeted Michael on 25 January to which Pearl responded “Yes please. When?” In the days leading up to the date, Pearl had been hyping up the date which was used as a platform to put the spotlight on black-owned South African businesses using the hashtag #NationalLunchDate. The pair began the date with some small talk after Mucwa revealed that he lives in Pretoria. The conversation then became about how the date came about as Pearl sought to find out his motivation for asking her (and other women) on the date.  It quickly became evident that Pearl was in the driver’s seat of the entire experience as she handled their food and drinks order, just as she took the lead in organising the date. The conversation then became about content creation – something that both Micheal and Pearl do in their own right. At the time of writing, the account streaming the national lunch date had grown from a subscriber base of 250 people to over 1,500 people.  The stream itself had just over 100,000 views.  The account streaming the video was one of many black-owned local businesses that were put in the spotlight as part of the unofficial national lunch date campaign. Other businesses included Oskido’s Midrand-based Daruma restaurant, Thando Thabethe’s Thabooty’s lingerie line, apparel brand Tshepo Jeans and Lekau Sehoana’s Drip sneakers.  The pair ended their evening off at Konka in Soweto along with a fan who won a competition that Pearl hosted to share the love.