Having mildly updated the standard 8 Series, BMW, at the same time, also unveiled the refreshed M8 due to go on sale at the same time. Revealed in Competition guise only, which reports have alleged has all but sealed the fate of the standard M8, the tweaks applied to the coupe, cabriolet and Gran Coupe mirror those of the donor 8 Series, but with a number of model bespoke touches. This includes the standard fitting of the otherwise optional LED Laserlights, a new star-spoke bi-colour black/grey 20-inch M light alloy wheel option and the Shadow Line exterior package. While the array of colours also match those of the 8 Series, six model exclusive hues can now specified; Brooklyn Grey Metallic, Isle of Green Metallic that debuted with the M3, Tanzanite Blue Metallic and from the Individual range, Frozen Deep Grey Metallic, Frozen Pure Grey Metallic and Frozen Deep Green Metallic. Inside, the M8 Competition gains the upgraded 12.3-inch iDrive infotainment system, but also the option of the M Carbon bucket seats with illuminated M8 branded headrests at the front. ALSO READ: BMW 8 Series returns from surgeon’s office The material for the seats, as well as those of the standard M Sport chairs, are Merino leather/Alcantara, however, a black/Sakhir Orange option can be had for the first time. Rounding the interior off, the mentioned Alcantara trim has been expanded to the top of the instrument panel and top part of the doors. Like with the 8 Series, the M8’s powertrain remains unchanged with power from the 4.4-litre bi-turbo V8 rated at 460kW/750Nm. Drive continues to be routed to four wheels via the sports optimised eight-speed Steptronic gearbox. Limited to 280 km/h or 305 km/h with the optional M Driver’s Package, the M8 Competition, in coupe and Gran Coupe guises, will get from 0-100 km/h in 3.2 seconds with the cabriolet taking a tenth longer. Set to go on sale soon, pricing remains to be confirmed, but expect a small increase over the now pre-facelift model.  For our thoughts on the pre-facelift M8 Competition, click here.