Uthando Nesthembu stars MaYeni and MaNgwabe seem to have won the battle to stop their husband Musa Mseleku from taking on another wife – at least for now.  The final episode which aired last December saw Musa take a stand against his wives in his continued quest to add another woman to the dynamic. MaYeni (Nokukhanya Mseleku) and MaNgwabe (Mbali Mseleku) were the most vocal in their disapproval of Musa’s wish for yet another wife.  Viewers of the final episode of Uthando Nesthembu (which is now available on DStv catch up, the DStv Now app and Showmax) were highly annoyed at the fact that Musa would discuss such a sensitive topic around the Mseleku children who were also present at their family dinner. According to MaNgwabe, her concerns about Musa adding another wife to the frey stem from the fact that Musa had promised that she would be the last wife to join the marriage when marrying her.  She explained how he promised her that he would not take on a new wife if she agreed to join their isthembu (polygamous household). The usually quiet MaYeni (Nokukhanya Mseleku) also agreed with MaNgwabe and this sparked a loud and aggressive argument between Musa and the sister wives.  Somehow during the argument, MaKhumalo (Thobile Mseleku) found herself in the firing line when MaYeni urged her to not allow herself to be used as a scapegoat by their husband just because she cannot give Musa children. Viewers were divided by MaNgwabe being against Mseleku taking on a new wife as some of them were proud of her for sticking up for herself and making her opinions heard. Others said that it was “unfair” of her to not expect her husband to take on a new wife when she agreed to be in a polygamous marriage. In a recent interview with Daily Sun, Musa confirmed that he would be holding off on expanding his family with another wife who could bear him more children as his wives (Nokukhanya and Mbali) were dead set against it.  “I couldn’t take wife number five because my two wives, MaNgwabe and MaYeni Mseleku, have threatened to leave me. They were not happy and I realised if I insist on it, my family would have been destroyed. I love my wives and I don’t want to lose Mbali or Muntuza over this. Instead, I want to build the Mseleku family,“ he told the publication.  He further explained that he would not want to bring a new wife into an environment filled with discord and force her onto people who do not like her or respect her.  As such, he will now focus his efforts on changing his wives’ minds about him taking on a new wife.