Proteas ladies opening batter Lizelle Lee was duly rewarded for a fantastic season when she was crowned ICC Women’s One Day International (ODI) Cricketer of the Year in the 2021 ICC awards. The award came hot on the heels of Proteas break out star Janneman Malan being named men’s Emerging Cricketer of the Year a day earlier. Lee was in immense form over the season, as the right-hander smashed 632 runs in the 50-over format during 2021, averaging at a brilliant 90.28 in 11 games. That featured five half-centuries and an unbeaten ton as she was a major contributor in helping South Africa move up to second on the ICC Women’s ODI Rankings. ALSO READ:  Proteas star Lizelle Lee named ICC ODI cricketer of the year “I have no words to be honest with you, I didn’t expect this. I think it’s a privilege just to be nominated and this award could have gone to anyone, so I am very privileged and honoured to be given this award,” said Lee. “It means a lot to me. It’s a massive honour and winning the ICC ODI cricketer of the year award is amazing. There are a lot of people who have played a role in this, not only on the field. My family has been my number one supporter, my parents and my wife have been amazing. “I also have to give credit to our coaching staff and teammates, if it wasn’t for them I honestly wouldn’t even be able to play, so credit to all of them.” Lee managed to play a number of sparkling innings over the year, with her unbeaten 132 off 131 balls against India in Lucknow a particular stand out as it helped the Proteas to a six-run victory to take a 2-1 series lead before they wrapped up the historic series win in the next game. “An innings to look back on is a tough one, there were a few that stood out for me, maybe not always scoring a hundred. But my one (century) in India and the one (91no) against West Indies in West Indies, that was really tough and was probably one of the best because it was a hard fought game,” admitted Lee. Her magnificent form has also seen her retain her number one ranked batter in the world spot and she will play an integral role in any success for the Proteas ladies as they head into the 2022 ICC Women’s Cricket World Cup starting in March. For Malan, who enjoyed a fantastic year on the ODI front, scoring two centuries, including the fourth highest score by a South African in an ODI of 177 against Ireland, and two half centuries in his eight innings, it was just reward for a trying year. “It is a privilege to be named the ICC Men’s Emerging Cricketer of the Year. I would like to thank my family, my support system, and my team for the opportunity,” said Malan. “My favourite innings of the year came in Sri Lanka where I had to bat the full 50 overs, whilst I was cramping. It was personally a big innings for me to keep batting and fight through the pain and be in a position to help my team win the game.”