This is an attack that many did not see coming. Veteran actor Patrick Shai went on Twitter this week to completely ridicule rapper Cassper Nyovest while baiting him into a boxing match.  Shai has appeared in shows such as Soul City, Generations and Zero Tolerance. A clip of the actor went viral on Monday wherein he threatens Cassper in the video. “I want to bleksem you before I die. I want to make sure that I’ve beaten you up so that on my tombstone, it is written that I am the man who beat Caster or Coster or whatever your sh*t name is… Give me that respect. Come, you son of a bi**h,” he said.  Fans quickly noted that in referring to Cassper Nyovest as a “son of a b**ch,” he was essentially calling his mom a b**ch.  The musician began his response by calling him an “old man.” “Why does my family have to be disrespected like this yo? F**k this is too much now! Modimo nna ha ke sa kgona, ke kopa thuso. [God, I cannot manage anymore, I need your help] “I know my life looks perfect and shit but it’s not. I’m human yo, I battle things you can never imagine. Every day I wake up [and] fight for me and my family. I don’t expect everyone to love me. You can disrespect me all you want, just leave my family alone. They aren’t famous, I am,” he responded. It was unclear why Patrick Shai attacked Cassper, but fans speculated that the actor was doing this for clout and perhaps money since the rapper’s last opponent reportedly scored R100,000 for their last match.  Due to the disrespect, fans are hoping he is the artist’s next boxing opponent.   After much backlash, Patrick Shai apologised hours later to Cassper and the country.  “From the bottom of my heart, I would like to apologise. Apologise, for having [used] such strong language towards your mom. Even though the challenge would have been an ideal thing but it has now been soured by what I said.  “I regret every bit of the last sentence I used. I am sorry.” Cassper replied: “These are some weird times yo. When everyone runs out of ideas to trend they just think ‘Cassper Nyovest’.” Local celebrity boxing matches are back in the public interest after Cassper’s fight with podcaster Slik Talk grabbed headlines last year.  Despite Slik Talk losing, he walked away with R100,000 and this may have been the reason many believe Patrick Shai went to this extent. Cassper’s next fight is with actor and DJ, Naak MusiQ in April.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.