Young KwaZulu-Natal based DJ Hlosiwe ‘DJ Hlo’ Mthalane is basking in the publicity that winning the Ukhozi FM song of year title has afforded her.  This is a quick change from the “who is DJ Hlo” jokes that people threw around in the wake of the announcement that her song has received the most votes during the radio station’s Ingoma Ehlukanisa Unyaka campaign.  On 1 January 2022, she had just over 1,000 Twitter followers and as of 7 January, she had more than 4,700 followers. She also boasts an impressive 117,000 followers on Instagram.  She wasn’t the only one making headlines this week as South African rapper AKA seems to have a new girlfriend and this has piqued his fans’ interest. The royals were also in the headlines after journalists brought up rumours of Prince William’s alleged affair from 2019.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. During the week, DJ Hlo took to Twitter to thank all the journalists who showed up to an impromptu media briefing that she hosted. Since her win, DJ Hlo has also been featured in publications such as The Citizen, Daily Sun and KZN-based publication Ilanga. She also had a chat with Metro FM DJ Mo Flava after winning the Song of the Year title.  According to her website, the DJ is a 24-year-old Durban-born Amapiano DJ.  “Her love for music started at the age of seven. DJ Hlo holds a Bachelor of Social Science degree from University of KwaZulu-Natal’s Howard College” and she majored in industrial psychology and management. DJ Hlo lists fellow musicians DJ Zinhle and Brenda Fassie among her influences and looks to authors like Sylvia Plath and Haruki Murakami for inspiration. For 2022, the artist is said to be looking forward to finally putting her debut album out in the world. “I just hope that it brings something positive to people, especially because we’re putting it out during this time of chaos and collapse and confusion,” she said.