Ari Lennox is still blowing off steam on Twitter and letting it be known how much she dislikes South African Twitter users.   The Grammy-nominated artist is still angered at how her interview with podcaster Macgyver “MacG” Mukwevho was handled and the reaction it received.  In a viral clip from the interview, MacG asks Ari Lennox if someone has been “f**king her good right now”.  Ari responded: “Oh my God, uhm I am not happy… wow that is a foul question… why ask it in that way? Woah.” MacG said the question was based on some lyrics in one of her songs. There was a massive response to this interview – some defended Ari, while others said her music often featured overt sexual lyrics and she shouldn’t feel offended by people asking such questions about her own lyrics.  There were reports on Twitter that the singer had blocked South Africa from viewing and interacting with her account because of the large number of negative comments from locals. She did make her account private during the weekend, however, she later unlocked it.  She was still defending herself on Sunday, particularly after her pronouncement she wanted to be dropped by record labels, feeling she wasn’t protected by her own team.  During her reflection, the Shea Butter Baby singer said the negative comments and bullying she experienced were a form of “karma” for the things she has said in the past.  She once called journalist Gayle King “self-hating, pieces of sh*t fu*kasses.” Ari was upset by King’s questioning of late basketball legend Kobe Bryant’s legacy, by bringing up the rape case against him. After the MacG interview, Ari added she was uncomfortable, felt violated, disrespected and wondered why no one intervened from either team. She also let it be known that her experience doesn’t mean she will stop singing about men and sex.  “I will continue to sing about d*ck when I want! And you misogynistic peasants can continue to jerk off to my music thank you,” she tweeted.  Ari also maintained she had every right to complain, express herself and continued to hit back at the critics.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. At this point, it is unclear if and when her rant will stop.