Your honeymoon is probably one of the most romantic times you’ll experience in your life, and for most South Africans, one of only a handful of times that you’ll get to travel outside of the country. Big 7 travel scoured the internet using Google trends data, Instagram hashtags and dedicated Pinterest boards to find the best honeymoon destination for 2022. “The final results were then ranked based on their overall romance, unique couple things to do and affordability,” they said in a statement.   South Africa was named the sixth best honeymoon destination for 2022, which should come as no surprise, as Stellenbosch in the Western Cape just recently made it onto the list of the top 100 most loved places in the world. ALSO READ: Stellenbosch amongst the top 25 most loved destinations to visit worldwide New England is a region located in the northeast corner of the United States, and is made up out of six states, namely Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont. The area has rivers and lakes, forests, mountain ranges with hiking and skiing trials, countryside a rocky coastline and soft sandy beaches, making it a great honeymoon destination. Known as one of the most romantic locations on earth, Greece with its beautiful clear blue seas is the perfect spot to get loved up as newly-weds. Whether you want to explore the island or just child and relax with cocktail in hand on the beautiful white sandy beaches, Zanzibar is any couple’s dream honeymoon destination. Be sure to check which time of the year is best to visit the island.  If you love suntanning and spending lazy days on the beach, it would be best not to visit during Monsoon season. Southwest of Sri Lanka in the Indian Ocean, the Maldives is made up out of nearly 1 200 islands with extravagant resorts. This destination usually seems too far out of reach when your budget is not unlimited, but there are often very good deals available on all-inclusive trips to the Maldives.  So, keep your eyes open if you have always dreamt of visiting paradise. Positioned where the Atlantic and Caribbean meet, Antigua and Barbuda is known for their reef-lined white sandy beaches, rainforests, resorts and sailing. If you love local, there are plenty of stunning places you can visit for your honeymoon. From the bush and the berg, to the beach and the winelands, South Africans are spoilt for choice when it comes to local travel. Known for their ancient sites, The Aran Islands comprise of three rocky isles guarding the mouth of Galway Bay in western Ireland. Having maintained the culture and heritage of traditional Irish life, it is a very popular tourist destination. Who hasn’t fantasised about visiting the gorgeous islands of Hawaii?  Known as “The Valley Isle”, Maui is the second largest Hawaiian island. The island has excellent snorkelling spots and world-renowned beaches, the perfect piece of paradise to celebrate your union as newlyweds. Florence is the capital of Italy’s Tuscan region and home to many masterpieces of Renaissance art and architecture. The Galleria dell’Accademia is home to Michelangelo’s “David” sculpture while the Uffizi Gallery exhibits Botticelli’s “The Birth of Venus” and da Vinci’s “Annunciation.” If you and your life partner are into art and architecture, this is the perfect honeymoon destination for you.   Situated just off the coast of Cornwall, The Isles of Scilly is beautiful, uncrowded and unspoilt.  Plane tickets to the island are quite expensive, but worth every penny.