For all the joy of the wonderful Test series triumph over India, the Proteas now need to turn their attention to ODI cricket, where there has been an underlying uncertainty in their play over the last year, often due to the difficulties in selection when it comes to balancing the side. Since whitewashing Australia 3-0 in February/March 2020, South Africa have won just three of their eight completed ODIs. Little wonder then that they are languishing in ninth place in the ICC Super League for World Cup qualification. South Africa’s problems centre around having just five bowlers, unless they choose a batsman who can bowl.  The venue for the first two ODIs against India is Boland Park in Paarl and the five-bowler recipe worked a charm the last time they were there, beating Australia by 74 runs in that 2020 series. But it is a risk, especially against a strong batting side like India. ALSO READ: New stars: Keegan Petersen and Marco Jansen shine for Proteas As ever when it comes to selection debates these days, Aiden Markram is seemingly at the centre of it all. He provides the ideal batsman/sixth bowler combination, and he did score 96 just three innings ago in ODI cricket, in Sri Lanka. But he was opening the batting in that series in the absence of Quinton de Kock, who is back and no doubt raring to go following his break over the Test series. Fitting Markram in elsewhere in the order is also problematic. Janneman Malan has cemented himself as De Kock’s opening partner with 661 runs in his first 10 ODI innings, earning him a nomination for the ICC Men’s ODI Cricketer of the Year title. Temba Bavuma is captain, Rassie van der Dussen averaged 57 at a strike-rate of 95 last year, and Kyle Verreynne scored 95 against the Netherlands in the last ODI the Proteas played. David Miller has been one of the best finishers in global cricket over the last year. Paarl can sometimes provide a sluggish, tricky surface to bat on, however, and South Africa may want to gamble with just five bowlers in order to strengthen their batting. But Markram showed in the T20 World Cup last October that he can be explosive in white-ball cricket; he knocked his 162 tournament runs off just 111 deliveries (SR 145.94) and that will count in his favour too. But it would be extremely tough on Verreynne to be left out and the selectors will ponder long and hard over South Africa’s batting line-up. The bowling attack is more settled with spinners Tabraiz Shamsi and Keshav Maharaj both set to play, while Kagiso Rabada and Lungi Ngidi should lead the pace brigade, with Andile Phehlukwayo likely to be their back-up, especially since he blazed 48 off just 22 balls against the Dutch. All three matches, on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday, start at 10.30am.