Two of South Africa’s favourite ladies, Tatjana Schoenmaker and Elana Afrika-Bredenkamp have both been seen in similar two-tone, one-piece swimsuits over the holiday season, setting the bar quite high when it comes to pulling off a sporty, yet feminine look. The 24-year-old swimmer, Tatjana Schoenmaker, who won the gold medal and set the world record in the 200-metre breaststroke at the 2020 Olympic Games smiles proudly on the latest Sarie magazine. In the photo she is wearing a two-toned one-piece costume – a black swimsuit with white zipper and neckline detail, coupled with bright green earrings and a bold, pearl necklace, fit for a queen – as accessories. READ: Tatjana Schoenmaker: Five things to know about SA’s Olympic golden girl Schoenmaker, who also won the silver medal in the 100-metre breaststroke at the 2020 Olympic Games, bid 2021 farewell with an Instagram reel encompassing the past year’s moments and memories, which she says will last a lifetime. In her caption she says “It will be my joy to say Your will, Your way,” explaining that there is so much peace and comfort in knowing who is in control in seeking God’s will to be done in your life. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Radio presenter Elana Afrika-Bredenkamp has been spotted in a similar one-piece swimsuit on social media a couple of days ago, looking just as fabulous walking through Kwazulu-Natal’s beautiful, warm waters like a true supermodel. She captioned her Instagram post, saying that in 2022, the one thing she would like to do more of is rest. In addition to her twinning moment with Tatjana, Elana has also been seen twinning with her daughters over the festive season, with pink clearly being their colour to end 2021 off with. You can shop the sporty, yet classy and feminine look by investing in a similar cozzie from Seafolly South Africa, beachsissi, Light In The Box, My Daily Deals, or SHEIN. They all have black and white bathing suits with similar lines and styles to those worn by Tatjana and Elana.