When news first broke regarding the “ticket prices” for the upcoming Cassper Nyovest vs Naak MusiQ boxing match, fans were shocked to see four-figure price tags attached to them.  However, rapper Cassper Nyovest has explained that Cassper Nyovest vs. Naak MusiQ is more than a boxing match, it is a “whole weekend… Not just the fight. It’s a world-class weekend of entertainment centred around boxing”. According to the boxing match’s event page on the Webtickets platform, tickets range from R9,000 to R65,500. Despite these “shocking” prices, the rapper took to Twitter to share his excitement after the R9,000 packages for Cassper Nyovest vs Naak MusiQ reportedly sold out in a matter of hours.  This price point counts as “entry-level” in relation to the other packages available and it gets you: a three-night stay (between Friday and Sunday) with breakfast for two people, two weekend passes to the event along with access to the pre-match concert and afterparty on Friday, access to Saturday’s pool party, access to the main event with undercard bouts, two unreserved seats for the boxing exhibition, access to the winners circle wrap party on Sunday and weekend-long access to the Valley of the Waves and Sun City complex.  This excludes additional meals and drinks at each of the weekend’s events and other miscellaneous costs.  Other accommodation options include packages at the Cascades hotel located at Sun City, priced between R14,000 and R65,500, and packages at The Palace ranging between R26,000 and R34,000.  The Cassper Nyovest vs Naak MusiQ celebrity boxing match is set to take place between 8 and 11 April at Sun City and comes after the rapper’s initial boxing match against vlogger Slik Talk. Naak MusiQ (Anga Makhubalo) set the challenge in the ring right after Cassper’s initial match. While audiences understood the rapper’s motivation for wanting to fight Slik Talk after some of the things he said on his YouTube channel, his motivation for agreeing to the match against Naak MusiQ is still unclear.