After initial reports that it had been cancelled, it seems the Real Housewives of Johannesburg is on its way back for a third season. However, the third season will be missing three cast members and fans of the franchise are unhappy.  While South African Real Housewives fans were celebrating news of the new additions to the Durban franchise, City Pressconfirmed that three “housewives” would not be part of the   Among the three are Brinette Seopela and Durban socialite Gugu Khati (whose time on the show was cut before her episodes even aired). The pair are believed to have been axed after getting into a fight with RHOJ OG Christall Kay, who was reportedly blindsided by her removal from the show.  Last April, Christall spoke to The Citizen and said an “unforeseen circumstance” occurred about a month prior to the conversation (March 2020).  She alleged that Gugu (who is popular musician DJ Tira’s wife) assaulted her. “Gugu Khati is the one who punched me, resulting in a black eye. She did this when I was sitting down and there was no threat to her. I have evidence to prove this. She is scared over what she has done and is trying to make out a case against me. Charges are being laid against her,” Christall explained. She also alleged that fellow   Christall adds that Brinette is also facing charges relating to this matter.  In an Instagram post shared around the time that reports of the incident broke, she took to Instagram and wrote: “Owning our story and loving ourselves through it is the bravest thing we will ever do.” Attempts to get comment from Brinette and Gugu by The Citizen at the time were unsuccessful.City Press also reports that Christall only found out last Friday that season three of RHOJ had begun filming with an all-new cast. The eccentric businesswoman had become a fan-favourite, it seems, and now viewers are worried if the show will be able to survive without her.  It is unclear whether season two additions Lebo Jojo Gunuguluza, Tarina Patel, Mpho Merriweather, Nompumelelo “Mrs Mops” Mophatlane and Lethabo ‘Lejoy’ Mathatho will be returning. The cast for the new season is expected to be revealed later this year. Real Housewives of Johannesburg season three will reportedly launch in October 2022 and only time will tell whether the new cast will be able to fill the void left by Christall Kay.