In leading the Proteas to a thrilling seven-wicket win in the second Test against India at the Wanderers on Thursday, captain Dean Elgar once again showed that while he may not be one of the most dazzling of batsmen, he is certainly among the most trustworthy in the game when it comes to digging in and putting his body on the line. Elgar batted for over five hours in scoring 96 not out as South Africa chased down 240 to win the match and level the series 1-1. He was superbly supported by Aiden Markram, Keegan Petersen, Rassie van der Dussen and Temba Bavuma as South Africa beat India at the Wanderers for the first time. ALSO READ:  Elgar leads Proteas to historic second Test win against India The gutsy opener, who took several blows to his body in bowling-friendly conditions, said it was now time for India to realise he is not easily dismissed or rattled at the crease. “They should stop hitting me now because I don’t get out! I draw on that pain. Some call it stupid, some call it brave. But if I put my body on the line then others can be expected to do it too,” Elgar said.  He added: “I said to myself that I had to be there at the end as a senior batsman and the captain. I’m glad it finished today because it was highly stressful and intense, you don’t expect anything else against India.  “It didn’t feel like we had a lot to gain this afternoon, we might have lost four wickets and then we’d be in big trouble.” ALSO READ: Elgar: ‘The team has fought long and hard for this sort of victory’ South Africa were well placed after day three of the Test, at 118 for two, but their chase was halted on day four on Thursday because of rain in Joburg. They eventually got on to the field in the late afternoon, under gloomy skies, and  conditions that seemingly favoured India and fast, swing bowling. “It’s a Test win for South Africa first and foremost. The team has fought long and hard for this sort of victory,” Elgar said. “I wasn’t looking at the end result today, I knew we had to start well in the first half-hour.” And they did, with Elgar and Van der Dussen scoring freely and putting the pressure on India. “I don’t play for personal accolades, it’s always team over my own performance for me, but it does feel nice to contribute in a big way,” Elgar said after his heroic, series-levelling innings. “My goal is always to influence the environment and lead from the front. It makes it easier then for the others in the changeroom to trust what you’re saying.”