The return of Big Brother Mzansi is a huge hit, and the show is consistently trending on social media as thousands of South Africans watch the new season.  This after the 20-year local absence of the reality television show. The show is hosted by Lawrence Maleka and premiered on Sunday 23 January. Viewers have missed moments such as the naked shower scene as well as the drama between the housemates.  There was a surprise early exit on Wednesday. Housemate QV decided to leave Big Brother Mzansi because she wanted a safe space to talk to someone, a therapist, about issues which she hasn’t resolved. RELATED: Big Brother Mzansi: Meet the colourful housemates  “The longer I am here, there is a [bigger] need for me to address it quickly”, she said during her exit announcement to her fellow housemates.  She did not specify what exactly this issue was, but added she could not do it on camera.  Themba Karabo Mabaso is a 30-year-old heavily-inked tattoo artist from Johannesburg, and by the looks of Twitter trends and engagement, he is the favourite so far.   Viewers have been drawn to his authenticity and his conscious game plan.  He also has a mysterious and isolating demeanour towards others.  The audience also shared how annoyed they are that Themba’s housemates “talk down” on him based on his accent when he speaks English.  Michelle Dimpho Mvundla, aka Mphowabadimo, is a 27-year-old from Daveyton. The sangoma described herself as outgoing and kind, but says she has “zero tolerance for nonsense”. This seems to have created a possible drama for Mpho as she was already at loggerheads with fellow housemate Naledi (Nale).  The two don’t see eye to eye, with fans have already comparing the two in terms of beauty and personalities.  But it is her no-nonsense approach and kindness that could bag her a share of the R2 million cash prize. There’s also a potential budding relationship in the Big Brother Mzansi house between Mpho and Libo.  Naledi Mogadime, aka Nale, is a 24-year-old from Pretoria. She described herself as a “fine gyal, not a sad gyal”.  The model also said she’s calm and zen. The housemate even has a fan in the form of actress and DJ Thuli Phongolo, who commended her class, sass and substance.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.