Ferguson films are on the lookout for new talent to join their popular telenovela The Queen on Mzansi Magic. The announcement was made by the Ferguson Films co-founder Shona Fergsuon’s stepdaughter Lesedi Matsunyane-Ferguson via their social media accounts.  Lesedi is the casting director at the production house that has created shows such as Kings of Joburg on Netflix and Rockville.  Lesedi said they are on the lookout for the beloved character Brutus Khoza’s (Themba Ndaba) four sons.  Brutus is known for his is signature toothpick in his mouth and a drink in his hand. He never shies away from going head to head with the Queen, Harriet Khoza, played by Connie Ferguson. He is also known for his funny dialogue and exchanges with his nephew SK Khoza. Lesedi said the new characters are all different ages, have different personalities, and they are looking for actors who are versatile and that can bring the “fire” they need on The Queen. One of the non-negotiable requirements for the roles stipulates that the men need to be fluent in KwaZulu-Natal Zulu but they don’t necessarily need to be from the province.  The character names and bios for the new sons have been shared on social media. They are Cebo, Nkosiyabo, Mlungisi and Nqobizitha Khoza.  Lesedi says they won’t be considering students but they will keep their information on their database if they chose to audition.  Cebo is in his early 20s and is the peacemaker amongst the boys who are constantly bickering. He also has been described as a man of reason and when he speaks, he imparts wisdom beyond his years.  Mlungisi is the rebel amongst the brothers and a self-proclaimed fixer. He is convinced that every disagreement can be resolved with fists or a gun. His character description isn’t glowing. “He’s unremarkable as a person, the average guy whose always been overlooked,” the bio read. Mlungisi is always fighting to get attention and because of this, he retaliates.  Simply described “the heir”, Nkosiyabo is the last born, at 21 he has always been viewed as being spoiled and Brutus’s favourite. He’s flashy, likes to party but constantly gets himself into trouble and has never had to work hard for his lifestyle. This “black sheep” is the oldest of Brutus’s sons and he has always been misunderstood and feels robbed of his place as the head of the family. He is defensive, entitled and unconsciously dresses and imitates his father in every way.  Fans of the smash hit The Wife on Showmax have said the new characters from Ferguson Films are similar to the Zulu brothers.  This included being similar in character description such as the head and fixer Nkosana, hot head Nqoba, and favourite Mqhele. As a result, viewers have said this is basically a copy and the producers of The Queen should rather focus on improving the script.