In the local game, Ronwen Williams is probably the flag bearer of one-club players, having been at SuperSport United since he was just a boy, graduated through the club’s junior ranks until he was handed the senior team’s armband as captain. READ ALSO: AmaZulu to unveil Mobara and Majok, Otladisa to follow soon It is easy to say “Ronza” is the template of what a Matsatsantsa A Pitori player should be like both with behaviour on and off the pitch. But as the saying goes, ‘all good things come to an end’ and Williams seemingly wants to take United to the divorce court, although he insists on an amicable separation. Having served the club for close to two decades, Williams feels he has reached the sealing at United and is now looking for greener pastures. His main reason is that he wants to hand up his gloves one day with a lot of gold medals to look at in his cabinet.   “One needs to be realistic and see the direction that the club is going, and I need to ask myself whether it aligns with what I want to achieve and if not so, we’ll see what happens. I have had talks with the board, and they know my feelings,” said Williams. “There is no way that I am leaving SuperSport now, it is too short notice, and I wouldn’t want to leave without them completing a season. I am a captain of the club and they have looked after me for the past 17 years of my life, so it is not about getting on the call and telling them I want to leave. I need to respect what they have done for me and if they agree, then we will see what the next step is. “I have had the talks with the team, we are on the same page, but the board is big, there are a lot of people in charge, but they know my wishes and where I am in my career. There are some members of the board who wouldn’t want to see me leave because I have done well here but it is for me to go and speak to them and have a clear conversation so that everyone can be happy,” he added. Matsatsantsa have had to let go of several their key players, some being Aubrey Modiba and Jeremy Brockie, who both left for crosstown rivals Mamelodi Sundowns and the most recent player who is believed to be headed to Chloorkop is Teboho Mokoena. Williams asks: why not me? “We have had so many talented players and they have let them leave and achieve what they want. I don’t see any difference with me and if SuperSport are happy, then we will move on. The only way I would move is if SuperSport are willing to let me go. I wouldn’t make it a fight, that is not what I am about and that’s not what the club is about. If they feel things will change and that they can challenge for titles, then I will stay because I am happy at the club.”