Ever imagined what life would be like if you woke up R120 million richer? It might sound far fetched, but dreams do come true, and may turn into a reality if you Panda, Pusha and Play for tonight’s whopping jackpot of R120 million in the Powerball draw. The jackpot has been on a continuous rollover without a winner since November 2021. A R110 million was up for grabs in the PowerBall draw on Tuesday night, and once again there was no winner. The last Powerball jackpot winner is a 72-year-old pensioner from KwaZulu-Natal who walked away with R100 million – after spending only R7.50. In that same draw, another person from Limpopo won R50 million in the PowerBall Plus draw, spending just R45 on a ticket.  So you never know when it’s you turn, but one thing for sure – if you win, life will never be the same. Lottery outlets close at 8.30pm on the day of the draw, which takes place at 9pm. The terms and conditions may differ from other service outlets. Visit www.nationallottery.co.za for more information.  You can find the historical winning numbers for PowerBall and Lotto draws here. PowerBall entries cost R5 per board including value-added tax (VAT). PowerBall Plus costs an additional R2.50 per board. You can also play PowerBall on selected banking apps (terms and conditions apply). It’s quite a shock becoming a millionaire overnight.  In most cases, lottery winners squander their newfound fortune in record time, while many others are duped into dubious investment schemes, or fall victim to the family and friends’ trap of dishing out their cash. Ithuba’s winner services department, therefore, offers free financial advice and trauma counselling to winners of R50,000 and up. The aim is to assist the winner “digest the news and enjoy every step of this life-changing experience”. Trauma counselling will be followed by extensive financial advice to assist the winner with their financial planning. Unfortunately, the odds of winning are not all that high; it’s stacked against you 18 to 1.  That means that if you want a guaranteed chance of winning the jackpot, you’ll need to spend more than R200,000 on R5 tickets. In other words, for every R1 you spend on Lotto and Powerball, you have a chance to get 50c back. That said, if you’re lucky enough to be the sole winner of the R116 million jackpot, you’ll join South Africa’s 43,600 high net-worth citizens in the big leagues. As per the New World Wealth report compiled in 2018, they each have assets worth R14 million or more. To join the 2,200 multimillionaires, you’ll need to somehow accumulate a wealth of R140 million or more.