There is a perception that “everyone” flocks to the Western Cape during the festive season and December 2021 was no different, especially for our local celebs.  In addition to seeing social media posts from people you know personally living it up the coastal province, your timeline was probably filled with pictures and videos of most of your favourite celebrities enjoying their time off in the Western Cape.  Take a look at some of the famous faces who were living it up in Cape Town and surrounding locations.  The actress and TV presenter recently returned to the Western Cape, this time for a girls trip with her friends Azola Mona, Thandile Mbana and Unathi Nkayi.  She also shut down Instagram in some bikini pictures showing off her amazing body and trim, toned midsection.  One of the many celebs in the province at the same time was disgraced radio host Unathi Nkayi. She and Minnie even ran into international superstar Jidena.  After losing some jobs in the wake of the public breakdown of his marriage, Somizi seems to have chosen “positive vibes only”.  He has been on what seems like one long vacation which culminated in a trip to Cape Town.  Not only has he been frolicking poolside but he also sparked rumours of a new romance.  Another young lady who shut down the internet is influencer Mihlali Ndamase who is in the Western Cape for a girl’s trip with her bestie Tebby Leburu. Although she has been posting content frequently, it is her bikini pics that got tongues wagging and sparked rumours of their own when social media users speculated that she had cosmetic surgery to look the way she does. “These people hit the gym for [a] couple of days, make noise about it then go for surgeries than come back with new bodies mxm. There’s no way that Mihlali lost weight this fast,” tweeted @CarlosNubian.  Mihlali wasted no time in clapping back against the allegations.  “If only you knew [how] terrified I am to go under the knife, hence why I opted to diet till I reach my body goals, but go off mami,” began the influencer.  “Also let’s say I went in for surgery, why’s it your business?” she added. “I worked very hard to get this body, I wish y’all wouldn’t be weird about that,” concluded Mihlali.  Metro FM host, club DJ and entrepreneur Lerato Kganyago also made her way to Cape Town after Christmas to ring in the new year with her celeb friends.  Influencer Sarah Langa was also in the Western Cape, alongside the likes of Amanda DuPont, Nqobile Khwezi, Faith Nketsi and Londie London to name a few.  In fact, most of the aforementioned celebs were present for popular Soweto hangout spot Konka’s own trip to Cape Town with its pop-up style venue.