TV presenter Katlego Maboe is celebrating after the court ruled in his favour in his case against Monique Muller, the mother of his child.Maboe confirmed his court victory in a media statement shared on social media.  “On 27 January 2022, TV personality Mr Katlego Maboe was absolved by the Magistrate’s Court against allegations of alleged misconduct made by his former partner Ms Monique Muller in October 2020.” According to the statement, the court ruled that there were no grounds for Muller to obtain a protection order against Maboe. “Furthermore, the court has not made a finding of acts of domestic violence that were allegedly perpetrated against Ms Muller, and as such, the matter has been dismissed. This is a great victory for Mr Maboe who has maintained his innocence throughout the two-year ordeal.” In the statement, Maboe confirmed that things had “settled into a routine” for the son he shares with Muller, hinting that they had reached some sort of agreement regarding co-parenting.He also thanked his friends and family for their support throughout the breakdown of his relationship and the public spectacle that ensued after he was exposed for cheating on Muller.  “I may never know or understand the real motive behind all of this destruction and heartache right now, I just want to focus on putting the pieces of my life back together,” said Maboe.  The statement confirmed that Maboe had also not recovered the loss of financial income he incurred since the start of the court battle. A loss stemming from the fact that he lost his job at Expresso and that OUTsurance cut ties with him and replaced him with Elana Afrika.  He was, however, able to obtain a harassment interdict against Monique’s brother, Seth, who had posted statements online in the days following the viral video in which Maboe admitted to cheating on Monique and the allegations she levelled against him afterwards.  Maboe is now pursuing legal action against Women For Change founder Sabrina Walter and Dr Janet van Eeden in her capacity as chairperson for the South African Film and Television Awards (Saftas).  This, according to Maboe and his legal team, is due to the fact that his Saftas nomination was rescinded based on public statements made about him by Walter, whom he is charging with criminal defamation.