The Asus Vivobook Pro 14X OLED is a lightweight laptop with a higher-than-usual resolution screen that packs enough power under the hood to ensure maximum performance.     The Vivobook is the perfect workhorse for busy professionals or casual users, and the impressive OLED screen will keep content creators motivated to produce even more.      If it’s creativity on the go you’re after, the lightweight Vivobook is the tool for you. Asus’s promise is to “create when you need, play when you want, live how you wish”. But here are a few more reasons to fall in love with the Vivobook Pro 14X.  It is lightweight, measuring 31.74 x 22.85 x 1.79cm and weighing only 1.45kg. Despite that, the Vivobook feels (and looks) solid, sturdy and premium.  The Vivobook Pro 14x is available in two colours: Comet Grey (with a “unique weave coating on the metal lid”), and Cool Silver with an anodised aluminium texture.  “Creativity never sleeps, so we’ve designed Vivobook Pro 14X OLED to be neutral yet contemporary, so it matches any style, any time.”  And the best part: the Vivobook’s coating rejects fingerprints and smudges. While most LCD laptop displays have a resolution of 1920×1080, the Vivobook Pro 14X has a 2.8K (2880×1800) OLED NanoEdge display.  It has an aspect ratio of 16:10 instead of 16:9, meaning you won’t lose as much vertical screen real-estate as you would with a normal LCD laptop. And while most laptops give you only 250 nits, the Vivobook delivers up to 600 nits. The nit – the unit of luminance used to describe a source of light – is the light from one candle per square metre.  Strange to use candles as a measure of brightness in the 21st century, but that’s a debate for another day.  As a general rule, anything above 400 nits will be bright enough to use on a sunny day, and you’ll need to find a shady spot for anything lower than 200 nits. And did we mention the refresh rate? The Asus Vivobook Pro 14X OLED is the first OLED laptop with a 90Hz refresh rate. You’d never want to use anything lower ever again.  It’s also equipped with an NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card and NVIDIA Max-Q technology for peak performance and efficiency. The Vivobook has a Backlit Chiclet Keyboard with the Asus DialPad – “a virtual interface on the touchpad that puts you in full control of adjustments with compatible Adobe creative software”.  Asus’s AI noise-cancelling technology uses machine learning to isolate unwanted noise from human speech. No more frustrating Zoom meetings and video conferences!  Asus explains: “The ClearVoice Mic feature in the MyASUS app can filter out ambient noise, and the multi-presenter mode normalises all individual voices from different positions for optimum group conference-call quality.” “The ClearVoice Speaker feature filters out all ambient noise apart from human speech — so you’ll hear what everyone else is saying.” The Vivobook has one USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type-A port and two USB 2.0 Type-A ports, as well as a Thunderbolt 4 and an HDMI 1.4 port.  It also has a 3.5mm combo audio jack, a micro-SD card reader and a DC-in. Most of the ports are situated on the right side which is not the ideal placement for me personally.  The Vivobook Pro 14X I tested was equipped with the Intel Core i7 processer, but you would also have the choice of an Intel Core i5.  It has a highly efficient dual-fan cooling system with two heat pipes to keep it cool at all times.  Thanks to the dual-fan cooling system and the IceCool Plus thermal technology, this is the one laptop that won’t burn up when you push it to the max.  The 63Wh high-capacity battery is not as long-lasting as I would have hoped. That said, I do keep an excessive amount of tabs open at any given time of the day.  It clocks around seven hours on one charge – not up to par with some other Asus devices I’ve tested, but definitely long enough to see you through the bulk of your day.  If you’re going to throw excessive video streaming or gaming into the mix, don’t forget the charger when you hit the road.  It’s built for non-stop productivity in mind. The OLED screen is an absolute dream, and the power this 14-inch laptop packs is truly surprising. “With up to 16GB memory, you’re ready for anything, whether it’s high-pressure multitasking, tough multimedia editing, or just some laid-back gaming”. The Asus Vivobook Pro 14X is perfect for creatives on the go who wouldn’t want to be bogged down by a bulky device. NOW READ: Asus Zenbook Flip 15 gives ‘flexible’ a new meaning – Review