Having divulged details of the latest special edition Discovery Sport and Range Rover Evoque models last year, Land Rover South Africa, via duoporta.com, has announced pricing details of the Urban Edition based on the former, together with two new derivatives of the latter. With this year already marking three years of the second generation Discovery Sport, the Urban Edition joins a rejigged line-up spanning eight models powered by a choice of three engines. Essentially a mild cosmetic undertaking, the Urban replaces the previous entry-level S trim level by gaining a black roof contrasted by a choice of five colours; Ostuni White, Santorini Black, Carpathian Grey, Hakuba Silver and Firenze Red, so-called shadow aluminium detailing and the R-Dynamic styling package. ALSO READ: Land Rover rolls-out pair of special edition models More prominent are the changes to the specification sheet, where the Urban comes as standard with the ClearSight ground-view and digital rear-view mirror, the updated 11.4-inch Pivi Pro infotainment system with over-the-air updates, an electric tailgate, Luxtec suede-cloth non-leather upholstery and the PM2.5 Cabin Air Filtration system. Providing motivation, the Urban is limited to either turbo-petrol or turbodiesel propulsion, both displacing 2.0-litres. In the case of the former, badged P250, output is rated at 183kW/365Nm while the latter, carrying the D200 designation, punches out 147kW/430Nm. Not available in Urban guise, the flagship plug-in hybrid Sport combines Jaguar-Land Rover’s three-cylinder 1.5-litre petrol with a 15-kWh lithium-ion battery that powers an 80 kW electric motor. Combined, the P300e produces 227 kW. A nine-speed automatic transmission is again the sole offering for the P250 and D200 with Land Rover claiming respective top speeds of 225 km/h and 209 km/h, and 0-100 km/h times of 7.8 seconds and 8.6 seconds. The P300e’s grunt is linked to a model specific eight-speed automatic with its top speed being limited to 209 km/h. The claimed all-electric range is 60 km with the 0-100 km/h dash taking 6.6 seconds. Shown at the same time as the Discovery Sport Urban, the Evoque Bronze Collection follows the same route by mainly sporting a series of bespoke cosmetic tweaks. Taking over from the entry-level S as the most attainable Evoque, the Bronze receives dark satin grey five-split spoke 20-inch alloy wheels and as per its name, a Corinthian Bronze roof and burned copper finished on the side air inlets. Available in three colours; Santorini Black, Carpathian Grey and Seoul Pearl Silver, the Bronze’s tweaked standard specification sheet includes a panoramic sunroof, the ClearSight rear-view mirror, LED headlights, the Pivi Pro system and bespoke to it, Ebony leather seats, metal-capped Bronze Collection badged floor mats and a Natural Grey Ash veneer. At the other end of the spectrum, the Evoque Autobiography revives a designation last used in 2020 for what it now the flagship trim level on all but the plug-in hybrid P300e. Again limited to aesthetics, bespoke interior detailing and updated specification, the Autobiography’s former gains comprise diamond-turned 21-inch gloss light silver alloy wheels, the otherwise optional black styling package the same copper detailing as the Bronze and Matrix LED headlights. While based on the HSE R-Dynamic, the Autobiography’s specification sheet includes, as standard, a fixed panoramic glass roof, heated steering wheel, heated and cooled front seats with memory function, heated rear seats and unique to it, quilted Windsor leather and a Grey Ash veneer. Spanning 11 models, the Evoque’s choice of powertrains mirror those of the Discovery Sport with no changes having taken place to power or torque outputs, the all-wheel-drive system and the choice of transmissions. Standard on all models is a five-year/100 000 km warranty and maintenance plan.