Msizi James is like a fireball of energy. From the moment that he walks into the room, it’s impossible to ignore his almost larger-than-life personality.  Here is the guy next door, who loves talking, expressing himself and is never short of something to share.  The 94.7 mid-morning radio host recently also tied the knot, and his enthusiasm for the love of his life is as infectious as James’ on-air antics.  On top of it all, he can multitask, after agreeing to change a car tyre, and chin-wag about life, the universe and everything in-between. “I recently started watching Formula 1 and am really into it,” said James.  “But in December Lewis Hamilton was really let down by his team, I felt.” This is why he challenged himself to a bout of multitasking and headed to Supaquick in Bedfordview for the challenge.  “Maybe I should join Verstappen’s team if I can do this.”  But, he said, changing a tyre is something he has done before. Just like being on-air, but unlike riding a bike, there’s no guarantee that you’d get it right first, second or third time around.  “And like in Formula 1, your dependency on a team of people in support of your effort, critical.” And he loves his journey in radio.  The move from 5FM saw James go solo again early last year on 94.7 after co-hosting on the national station.  “I have really settled in and it’s been an incredible journey,” he said.  “The single biggest thing about radio is that it allows me to connect with people in an honest and authentic way. I pride myself on my shows,” and added that he is a straight talker who loves having genuine conversations.  “And I still have so much to learn about the medium, it is such a passion, and I plan to make the most of every moment.” James talks through his career and ventures outside of radio while undoing the nuts on the wheel.  “Hand me the spanner, please,” he says to one of the engineers at the store, and starts undoing each bolt manually.  “This is tougher than I remember,” he laughs.  But James pulls it off, and within a minute or two he unhinges the worn rubber and starts fitting new treads.  “My wife runs some of our other brands,” said James.  Presently the pair own a chain of coffee shops called Ground Up, a coffee brand Gaya and a cleaning business amongst other ventures. “We are a great team!” ALSO READ: Ten easy steps to changing a flat tyre James’ career rocketed shortly after winning an East Coast Radio (Durban) talent competition in 2014.  He was slotted into the early morning graveyard shift before breakfast, then he was moved to a better breakfast weekend slot after a few months.  After that, he was cast as a presenter for ETV’s Big Brand Show, and by 2017 headed off to Joburg to join 5FM. He hosted an educational game show on telly called The Hidden Science and by 2021 settled into 94.7. This all before his 30th birthday, which only comes next year. James is the real deal. He is open, chatty and there’s a no-nonsense, what you see is what you get feeling about him.  But he cannot help smiling or cracking a joke at every turn. He’s a playful guy with a serious side. Especially when the conversation turns back to his wedding.  “I married my high school sweetheart,” he said.  “We started dating when we were quite young, broke up for a bit, and then for the past four years we have been inseparable. Taking the next step wasn’t only natural for our relationship, but it’s one of the most exciting things to have ever happened to me.” “There you have it,” he said as he tightened the last bolt on the wheel.  While it may not be a Formula 1 pits record at 7 minutes, he did it in what looked like a rather effortless endeavour.  “I have had the unfortunate situation more than once where I landed up on the side of the road having to change a tyre.”  So while he may not have made the team at Verstappen or Hamilton and company, at least he wouldn’t be too later for his nuptials, had a flat gotten in the way.  James and his wife Angela tied the knot during a small ceremony in the bush during December.