Mzansi’s favourite Mseleku sister wives from uThando Nesthembu are on a continued rise to success and they can now add a talk show to their growing resume.  The polygamist wives of Musa Mseleku, MaCele, MaYeni (Nokukhanya Mseleku), Makhumalo (Thobile Mseleku) and MaNgwabe (Mbali Mseleku) will be showing the public a different side of themselves by providing and sharing their knowledge on pressing issues on their new talk show.  It was announced on social media that the show will have 13 episodes and be called Igumbi Lamakhosikazi.  SABC publicist, Caroline Phalakatshela confirmed the reports to The Citizen. The synopsis of the show will look into educating, informing and having uncensored conversations about issues that engulf South Africa.  The popularity of uThando Nesthembu on Mzansi Magic has meant the wives have a massive following on social media, with many people engaging with them and asking them different types of advice on their pages. However, the wives want to do much more and use their power of influence to reach a wider audience and help people who have not had the courage to speak out. uThando Nesthembu is on its fifth season and the season finale aired in December last year and it looked like MaNgwabe and MaYeni won their fight for Musa not to take on a fifth wife. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. There has been a family rift over Musa’s persistence to marry wife number five especially since this girlfriend had the last name of MaKhumalo.  Viewers were also unhappy with the fact that Musa would discuss such a sensitive topic around the Mseleku children who were also present at their family dinner. MaYeni and MaNgwabe have been against Musa’s need for a fifth wife. MaNgwabe said her biggest concerns of Musa adding another wife may come from the fact that Musa had promised that she would be the last wife to join the marriage when he married her. Musa has held off getting wife number five for now and it is expected that the show will be renewed for a new season.  R1.3m nightclub bill: Meet the Zimbabwean pastor who picked up the tab Minka Kelly: Everything you need to know about Trevor Noah’s new ‘makoti’