In a scene that opens with her character in therapy, Phuti Khomo tries to explain to her very confused therapist, played Thami Ngubeni how it is that she has two “baby daddies” but one baby in the new 1Magic TV show called Entangled. Based on the show poster and trailer, each of those baby daddies will be played by actors Vuyo Ngcukana and Vuyo Dabula.  According to the show’s page on the 1Magic website, Entangled follows Sharon (Phuti Khomo), an overachiever in her 30s who is on the verge of marrying the love of her life, Sizwe. However, when her ex, Julius (Dabula) suddenly resurfaces after many years, everything Sharon and Sizwe (Ngcukana) have built is threatened.  “The show is about more than a love in danger – through the characters and storylines, we explore the trials of life in our 30s, navigating friendships, the concept of masculinity, culture clashes, sexual orientation, and the ever-pressing discussions of what modern-day relationships look like through a humorous lens,” explain the showrunners.  “If your 20s are meant to be a time of fun and messy self-discovery, then your 30s are for nursing the hangover from some of those bad decisions. At least that’s the case for the characters in Entangled, a sizzling new romantic comedy-drama coming exclusively to 1Magic on the 7th of January.”  The show is in the expert care of production house, Burnt Onion who, in recent years has been behind shows and films such as Seriously Single and How To Ruin Christmas 1 and 2. It will feature 13 episodes and it will also star radio and TV host Pearl Modiadie as Andiswa in her first major acting role. “The strong supporting cast of Entangled includes Senzo Radebe as Reggie, award-winning comedian Mpho Popps as Zweli, award-winning actress Didie Makobane as Zenani and Tessa Twala as Tshepi.” “Entangled is a ground-breaking and edgy show that we’re excited to share with our premium and compact plus viewers. As 1Magic, we’re proud to contribute and create content that is interesting, lively, real and shifts mindsets. It’s part of our commitment to have a variety of local productions that our audiences can relate to,” said Shirley Adonisi, newly appointed Director of Local Entertainment Channels at M-Net. Although funny, light and provocative, the show runners promise that the series will also be a tear-jerker thanks to its compelling storylines which will cover a broad range of topics and themes around modern-day relationship dynamics. Entangled starts on Friday, 7 January 2022 and will air on 1Magic (DStv Channel 103) at 9:30pm.