Mom blogger, Juan-Ri Mostert gave birth to her and Springbok Lock, Franco Mostert’s third child and their only son on 21 December 2021. The little boy’s two sisters were evidently ecstatic when their parents brought him home, jumping up and down, giving kisses and cuddling with him whenever they got the chance. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The more their little brother, Juan-Henke Benjamin grows, the more he looks like his dad, who is clearly just as ecstatic about his son when looking at their post-birth family photos. Being a key Springbok rugby player,  Mostert had to hit the road again mere days after the birth of their son, though. PICS: Springbok Franco Mostert and wife prep for son’s arrival “I cherish every moment together as a family of five, before I need to bid my husband farewell tonight for the next 3-4 months,” Juan-Ri wrote in an Instagram post late in December. Being married to a rugby player clearly comes with a lot of sacrifices. She says: “You plan your life around how it will fit into the rugby season. We had Christmas on 22 December this year, because my husband had to fly out on the 23rd to quarantine in a ‘Covid-green-country’ for two weeks so that he could fly back to Japan to isolate there for another two weeks. Not even to mention our son’s birth, which we had to schedule just so he wouldn’t miss it.” She doesn’t let missing her man stand in the way of watching their little munchkin grow, though. “He already looks bigger to me every day,” she writes in a more recent post. “So, for now, I am going to hold him very tightly and drink in every second.” Juan-Henke Benjamin might not have his daddy with him all the time, but he sure has him in him. Juan-Ri recently wrote that their daughter, whom they lovingly call Joi, looked at her baby brother on the day he turned one month old, saying that he is their ‘Yster’ and that she has decided to call him little Franco. And, as you scroll through the pictures of the latest addition to the Mostert family, the clear resemblance between him and his dad immediately catches the eye. Sacrifices or not, the Mostert family is tight and seems to enjoy having a baby boy in their midst.