The Boer Soek ’n Vrou farmers have each chosen 10 women they would like to meet and in last night’s episode they got to meet each other in person, with Lanzerac Wine Estate ensuring a cosy atmosphere for their first dates, or rather 5-minute flash appointments. The farmers also had to eliminate five women from the 10. As the women walked in, there were nervous giggles and chatter while the farmers sat, waiting anxiously and hoping to meet the girls of their dreams through the exciting matchmaking programme.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Johan was described as a gentle, sincere person with beautiful eyes by some of the women he met. Others called him handsome with a warm personality. He met Chanzé, who brought him a hat, Jenny from Reddersburg, Heidi, who works in Hopetown, and Elsabe who just wanted to know if he would hop out and open the gate for her if they were on the farm.  He also had five minutes with Liandi, with whom he shares a mutual interest in the popular series Friends, an aesthetic therapist, Michaela, and Dané, a wedding photographer. The conversation between Johan and Arina – a dentist – seemed a bit awkward at first, but she later told presenter Marciel Hopkins that she feels the five minutes were “effective”. Johan also got to chat to Margaret and Tiffany about their time America – a place he has also been to. The farmer said there were many of the women who stood out for him and that he felt a little confused after their flash appointments. Still, he chose five women that he would like to get to know better. Arina, Michaela, Liandi, Chanzé and Dané got to stay. READ: ‘Boer Soek ’n Vrou’: Meet the 5 farmers who got the most letters Willem was rather nervous about meeting his top 10 and afterwards he said that it felt like a whirlwind; no, a storm! The women he chose said they wrote to him because of the ambition they saw in him and the fact that he has beautiful eyes. Another said: “A farmer always looks good in jeans!”  Chantel brought him a little gift to soften him up for flying, Nicolene said she would like a man who can cook and Willem asked Leandré how she thought a normal week on the farm would be. Sonja, who has three children, said she’s very handy to have around the house and that she could change his home’s light bulbs if he invited her to visit on the farm. Jolandi has a son, who she says means everything to her. Hermien is a busy dog-lover who works as a receptionist at a vet while studying and Selma went to university at the same time as Willem, but they never got to meet each other. He also met with another Chantel, who is a business consultant. Nerina had to tell Willem how to keep a goat in the camp and Wandie claimed to be the ideal farmer’s wife, with the exception of the kitchen. Willem asked business consultant, Chantel, as well as Sonja, Leandré, Wandie and Nicky to stay a little longer. Petré says he analysed the letters that were written to him, highlighting the important parts to prepare for the famous Boer Soek ‘n Vrou flash appointments with the 10 women he chose. Petré and Diedré hit it off with small talk, chatting about the weather. He thanked Lisa for the wine she sent him and then told her that he is not a big wine drinker. Mieke dubbed herself the best ‘braaibroodjie’ maker and Valerie had an interesting hobby – that of farming with racing pigeons – up her sleeve. Marike said she heard that Petré knows people from where she’s from and the topics covered while talking to Michaela included student life in Stellenbosch.  Eloise told the farmer about her au-pairing experiences and Bu-Anda said she can build with bricks, but she’s more involved in construction management. Petré and Lourize have met before and he is now holding her to a pinky-promise made between them three years ago, while Amanda told him about her dream of doing the Big Swing. Petré believed that he started the process correctly and that the 10 women he chose were all wonderful people. In the end he asked Eloise, Lourize, Deidre, Bu-Anda and Valerie to stay. After the farmers chose their top 5s, the next activity included writing a song with artist Melissa – a great icebreaker for the farmers and their potential matches. Johan and the five women he chose wrote a song that they agreed would put Marquard (and Johan) on the map. He said the activity was a great conversation starter and the women – although in competition for the shy farmer with the pretty eyes – seem to quickly have become friends. The song writing icebreaker gave Willem a lot of insight into the women’s personalities. Petré and the five women he chose had a ball putting their icebreaker song together. He even jumped at the opportunity to add a couple of fun lines and they chuckled about his creativity with words like kiss, drive and harvest. One could only wonder what fate holds for the other Boer Soek ‘n Vrou farmers next week…