The Lions are fired up to welcome a formidable Sharks team to Ellis Park on Saturday for their United Rugby Championship match-up. The visitors are expected to be almost back to full strength with most of their Springboks available and this will make for a tough challenge for the hosts. “We know we are up against a formidable team, you look at the quality they have across the board from one to 15. But we can’t focus on their individuals, the last thing we want to do is try single out players,” admitted Lions assistant coach Ricardo Loubscher. “But I think what is important for us going into this game is that we focus on ourselves, we know it’s going to take a big 80 minute effort. We just have to control the controllables, and make sure we are ready for the game.” ALSO READ: ‘It’s gonna be lekker,’ says Whiteley about return to Lions’ den The Lions head into the match off a massive win over the Stormers in their last outing, however that came in early December and the team will need to try and get back to that same level if they want to try get one over the Sharks. “Ideally we would have liked to have had another game or two straight after the Stormers match, we felt that the way we played was close to perfect so it would have been good to build on that,” said Loubscher. “But the last three weeks have gone well, we are happy with our preparation and there is an excitement and lekker buzz in the camp. “The guys are looking forward to just playing again, a lot of hard work has gone in since the Stormers match and I think in general everyone is keen to get out there and play.” ASLO READ:  Former Bok prop joins Bulls as coaching consultant Despite their impressive effort against the Stormers, the Lions know they still have to keep on working hard and improving if they want to gain any success in this competition and they have to stay at the top of their game. “We have been working on our set piece, our defence has been good but there is always room for improvement and we have been happy with our attack,” said Loubscher. “But in general we just want to get back to our fitness levels. We have been happy with our detail, like our shapes off nine and 10. “But we have put particular focus on our kicking game so we can play the game in the right areas and if they come with a big kicking game which I think that they will come with on Saturday, that we can handle those kicks.”