Marciel Hopkins, presenter of kykNET’s famous matchmaker series Boer Soek ’n Vrou, is ecstatic as she talks about the thirteenth season’s success. Five of the farmers whom she has shared the journey with have got engaged since the final episode, and one can’t help but wonder if Marciel’s engagement early in the season might have had an effect. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Déan and Megan, Niel and Chereze, PF and Chantelle, Albert and Chanté, and Marthinus and Bianca are all set to get married and have undoubtedly made their mark in the history of kykNET’s Boer Soek ’n Vrou. READ: ‘Boer Soek ’n Vrou’: Niel pops the question Marciel says that Covid-19 definitely also had an effect.  “It has changed society’s humanity and the way we think about things,” she says. “We’ve come to realise that we don’t necessarily have as much time as we’d like to think.”  She says that Covid-19 taught us to make more deliberate decisions and to keep to it, and that when it comes to love, people learned to take ownership. That is what she saw among the farmers that took part in the thirteenth season – ownership and deliberate decisions. For her, Boer Soek ’n Vrou’s thirteenth season came with connections and an energy we often struggle to find in similar reality shows.  However, sceptics wondered whether the Covid-19 element might have had a negative effect on the success of the series. The Boer Soek ’n Vrou presenter says it was the complete opposite, as Covid-19 brought with it an opportunity for the farmers and their potential matches to spend more quality time together.  Covid-19 and its lockdown regulations had forced them to limit the usual social events and gatherings and the participants got to know each other better in smaller groups, which Marciel believes was a huge help in the farmers’ decision-making process. According to Marciel, Boer Soek ’n Vrou is also a bit of a pressure cooker, as it nudges its participating farmers to make decisions they might have put aside or postponed under normal circumstances.  “Millennials sometimes have so many choices that they almost don’t make a choice,” she says.  But the thirteenth season, with its limited socialising options, allowed for proper introspection (even from the entry stage) and Marciel says: “When you know, you know.” Marciel is getting married to her fiancé, Handré Lourens, in April and says that sometimes there is an element of luck when it comes to love and the matches made on Boer Soek ’n Vrou. This also proves the superstitions around the number 13 wrong – not just once, but five times with five engagements! Boer Soek ’n Vrou’s 14th season kicks off on kykNET on 13 January 2022 and is sure to keep viewers curious and farmers excited.