It’s official! Showmax just announced the Real Housewives of Durban cast for season two, in the form of Londie London, Thobile ‘MaKhumalo’ Mseleku and Jojo Robinson. The streaming platform also confirmed a launch date for the series which will begin on 28 January 2022, with new episodes following every Friday. The announcement by Showmax came with a first look at the three new   According to Showmax, Londie London’s decision to join The Real Housewives of Durban cast was sparked by her return to Durban and her becoming a wife to businessman Hlubi Nkosi and mom to a ten-month-old baby boy, Uminathi. “Since I’ve become a wife, and a mother, I thought it would be a great idea for the public to see how I’m rebranding myself,” said the musician, actress, and jewellery designer in a statement.  “People know me as this sexy singer and I feel like they don’t really know my personality and what I’m about outside of the entertainment industry.” Season two director Thumeka Hlotshana from Let It Rain Films describes Londie as someone who “oozes class and confidence. She is relatable and honest when the moment calls for it, especially about the things that matter. Her favourite word, ‘Honey’, is definitely going to be the thing for the season… ‘Enjoy, honey!’” Being married to popular polygamist Musa Mseleku, Thobile MaKhumalo Mseleku is no stranger to the public eye. In addition to her appearance on Uthando Nes’thembu, she’s a radio personality on Vuma FM and an in-demand motivational speaker. She also has a number of other business interests.  Thobile’s decision to join The Real Housewives of Durban is inspired by her desire to bring out her individuality more.  “Many people know me from Uthando Nes’thembu, and they haven’t had the opportunity to know and understand Thobile as an individual,” she said.  YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE: Who else is on the cast of Real Housewives of Durban? “Wherever I go, I’m always associated with the family I’m married into, which is not a bad thing and is not something I have a problem with. However, I do have a life outside of the whole family.” Her decision was also motivated by her hunger to find like-minded women.  “I need people that I can mingle with, people who inspire me and make sense to me,” she says. “I’ve already seen these women do things for themselves, which is inspiring. They are self-driven like I am.” “Thobile is definitely a new flavour,” added producer Thumeka.  “Not only is she already popular from her family show but she is the only wife currently in a polygamous marriage. She is from a humble village on the South Coast, so The Real Housewives Of Durban is going to take her outside of her comfort zone as she tries to fit in with a group of wives living the big city dream.” The third and final addition to the Real Housewives of Durban cast is Jojo Robinson – a tattoo fanatic and artist, who is married to Durban businessman and former South African kickboxing champion Calven Robinson.  The Robinsons have a six-year-old son, Rocco.   “I decided to join this season because I wanted to give a new perspective on the tattooed community. Often people have assumptions about people with tattoos and I wanted to flip that around and show everyone that you should never judge a book by its cover. I also always wanted to do something in TV and thought this would be a good way to kick-start that.  I love doing things that are out of my comfort zone, and I think this was the perfect space for self-growth and to create new friendships. It’s time to make the circle bigger, baby. And bring a little sugar and spice to an already amazing group of women,” said Jojo of her decision to join the show.   “Jojo is outspoken, colourful and unapologetically herself,” explained Thumeka.  “Her love for art comes through in pretty much everything she does. She loves her family and friends, but is never afraid to stand up for what she thinks is right. Viewers can expect straightforward conversations and responses from Jojo. She is loud, humorous and simply fun.”  In addition to the new Real Housewives of Durban cast, alumni Annie Ludick, Nonkanyiso Conco, Nonku Williams and Sorisha Naidoo will all be returning for season two, as will friend to the show Mabusi Seme.Fans have expressed their disappointment that Mabusi was not upgraded from her status as a friend to the show. The Real Housewives franchise is licensed as a format by NBCUniversal Formats, a division of Universal Studio Group.  Showmax is also in production on the first season of The Real Housewives of Lagos, the 16th international version of The Real Housewives format and the third to be adapted in Africa. READ NEXT: Ayanda Ncwane reveals the real reason she left ‘Real Housewives of Durban’