The Lions named a strong match 23 on Thursday to take on the Sharks in their United Rugby Championship clash at 3pm at Ellis Park on Saturday. Just two changes have been made from the starting side that thumped the Stormers in their last outing in December, with new full-time signing Pieter Jansen van Vuren coming back from injury to slot in at lock, while Ruhan Straeuli replaces the injured Vincent Tshituka at flank. ALSO READ: Fred Zeilinga eager to cement Lions spot in URC campaign The bench also sees a couple of injury returns with prop Ruan Dreyer and exciting young utility back Tiaan Swanepoel back in the mix, and they will hope to impress when they get on the field. Lions head coach Ivan van Rooyen said his troops were up for the Sharks challenge with a few players hoping to make an impact this weekend, while he also backed his loose trio to provide his side with the necessary go-forward attitude against the visitors. ALSO READ: Fassi excited about URC restart as Sharks take aim at Lions “We are pleased to have Pieter back. He was great for us on tour before injury halted his momentum. He’s trained really well over the past few weeks and he is eager to get stuck in again,” said Van Rooyen. “It’s unfortunate to lose Vincent due to an injury setback, but the opportunity now presents itself for Ruhan to come in and do the job for us in concert with Jaco Kriel and Francke Horn. “It’s great to be back for Vodacom URC action, especially on our home turf. It’ll be our first URC fixture at home since the campaign started so we’re pretty excited about that.” Lions 15 EW Viljoen, 14 Edwill van der Merwe, 13 Wandisile Simelane, 12 Burger Odendaal, 11 Sibahle Maxwane, 10 Fred Zeilinga, 9 Andre Warner, 8 Francke Horn, 7 Ruhan Straeuli, 6 Jaco Kriel, 5 Pieter Jansen van Vuren, 4 Ruben Schoeman, 3 Carlu Sadie, 2 Jaco Visagie, 1 Sti Sithole Bench: 16 PJ Botha, 17 Morgan Naude, 18 Ruan Dreyer, 19 Willem Alberts, 20 Emmanuel Tshituka, 21 Morne van den Berg, 22 Matt More, 23 Tiaan Swanepoel