Actress Thuli Phongolo is still setting the record straight on her departure on Showmax hit series The Wife.  Thuli played the character Lerato, a journalist and friend of the lead character Hlomu Dladla. There was much speculation on the circumstances of Thuli’s exit after media reports suggested that her role was “unexpectedly” written out of the show because she was often “missing in action.” After the production house of the series, Stained Glass Production denied the reports earlier this week, Thuli’s management has released their own statement denying allegations of her unprofessionalism and work commitment.  “We vehemently would like to refute them as baseless and devoid of substance.  “It is imperative to note that Thuli and the producers of the show reached a mutual agreement to end her role on The Wife pursuant to them agreeing that the production schedules for continued filming were unsuitable for all parties involved.” ALSO READ: Thuli Phongolo’s exit from ‘The Wife’ explained Her management says the actor and DJ has a history of consistently having a high level of professionalism and commitment to clients and her craft.  They thanked Stained Glass for offering Thuli the opportunity to be part of the show.  “Her portrayal of Lerato and working with the cast has brought her immense joy and has made an indelible contribution to her growth career as an actor.” Thuli’s character was cut this week in the latest episodes (episode 28-31) that aired on ShowMax on Thursday (13 January).  In the series, Lerato loses her job and spirals out of control including her personal relationship with her boss Lux, which takes an ugly turn.  Lux isn’t interested in that drama, he has taken much interest in the Zulu brothers past. He’s investigating the recent deaths in their home town to what happened that fateful night their parents died and the heists that have rocked Johannesburg.  RELATED: The Wife: Is Mqhele Zulu cancelled? The series is inspired by Dudu Busani-Dube’s bestselling books, Hlomu The Wife, Zandile the Resolute and Naledi: His Love.