In this week’s royal update, Prince Harry has apparently reached out to his father Prince Charles to mend their broken relationship ahead of the Queen’s Platinum Jubilee.  Prince William’s messy habit, which annoys his wife Kate Middleton, has been revealed. Lilibet’s first birthday falls on an important date for her great grandmother, Queen Elizabeth II, and the queen will spend her reign’s 70th anniversary in her estate at Sandringham, but not at the main house where she usually stays.  During a trip to an RAF base in Cyprus back in 2018, Kate Middleton and Prince William opened a new recreation facility, and when the two were taking a tour around the facility, William made the comment: “Keep the pizza off the sofas”.  Kate then elaborated on William’s comment and revealed that he has the annoying habit of spilling and messing food on their sofas at home.  “You’re a nightmare with that,” Kate replied to William.  ALSO READ: Royal news: Harry accused of making Queen’s life difficult, Kate’s ‘bittersweet’ royal title The daughter of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle will be celebrating her first birthday on 4 June 2022, but her birthday is not the only big celebration that will be happening on that specific day.  On that same weekend, the UK will hold festivities to celebrate the big milestone that is the Queen’s 70th year on the throne.  The Queen’s coronation took place on 2 June 1953 at Sandringham House, a year after her father King George VI’s passing. She ascended to the throne on 6 February 1952, when she was just 25 years old, but her coronation was postponed to the following year to give the Queen some time to mourn her father’s death.  While there are bank holidays, big parades and many other joyous events planned throughout the year to celebrate the Queen’s forthcoming Platinum Jubilee, she has chosen to spend this time in a quiet location that is near and dear to her heart.  The Queen travelled to her estate in Sandringham, but rather than staying in the main house as she always does, she has decided to stay at Wood Hole cottage. According to Express UK, Wood Hole was the cottage where the queen’s late husband, Prince Philip, called home after his retirement from public duty in 2017.  This will be the Queen’s first stay in the cottage since Prince Philip’s passing.  The Sun has reported that Prince Harry has reached out to his father Prince Charles ahead of the Queen’s jubilee to help mend their broken relationship, according to a source.  “There has been a definite thaw in relations between Harry and Charles. They are on much better terms and have been having friendly chats and video calls. “It has been suggested to Harry he may live to regret any lingering family bitterness, and he has taken that on board. There is a feeling he is coming back more into the fold and wants to be closer to his family,” said the source.  On 16 January, Prince Harry’s representation released a statement revealing the UK government had made the decision to ban him from paying for police protection while he and his wife Meghan Markle – as well as their children Archie and Lilibet – visit the country. Apparently, Palace officials believe that Harry’s request to pay for police protection maybe for his visit to the UK during the period of his grandmother’s Platinum Jubilee in June, although it is unclear if he will be attending the festivities with his wife and two children.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.