The good news is that with Game’s Price Beat Promise, South African parents are guaranteed to pay the absolute lowest price on the market for all stationery items stocked at Game – whether you shop online or in-store. “It is our mission to always offer our consumers the best possible price on the goods we stock and we remain committed to offering South Africa’s cheapest basket of stationery. With many South African parents relying on a R450 grant per child, we recognise that they need the best value on their back-to-school items,” says Katherine Madley,  Game’s Vice President of Marketing. Game’s Back-To-School promotion, running until 22 February, is offering unbeatable value on all the most popular stationery items – including combo deals and value packs, to assist parents in getting the most out of their purchases. Should parents find any of these items cheaper at another retailer – either online or in-store – they can make use of the Price Beat Promise to pay the lower price on the item and get cash back. To make use of Game’s Price Beat Promise, you do not need to sign up or be part of a programme. It’s simple – if you’re shopping for something specific and find it cheaper elsewhere, let Game know by bringing the competitor leaflet showing the cheaper price into one of its stores across the country, and they will beat that price by 10% on the difference.  It even works on items you have already purchased – if you’ve bought any item from Game and within 21 days and find the identical product at a competitor for less, bring in the competitor leaflet valid at time of price-beat request and Game will refund you 10% on the difference. Customers who have purchased items online within the last 21 days can email a screenshot or link to the cheaper item to service@game.co.za, along with their order number, in order to be eligible for a refund. Some of the specials available this year include: Specials are also running on laptops, tablets, printers, backpacks, lunch items and laptop bags.