The Lions have always played their rugby in expansive fashion believing that one or two mistakes are affordable if they are scoring plenty of tries themselves. It is a bold approach which Sharks fullback Aphelele Fassi is primed to try and take advantage of when the two sides meet in their United Rugby Championship match at Ellis Park on Saturday. If Fassi has shown one thing so far in his exciting career it is how lethal he is when it comes to counter-attacking opportunities.  And the Springbok who turns 24 on Sunday is just delighted to be getting out into the heat of action again, having last taken the field on November 20 in the Toyota Challenge friendly against the Free State Cheetahs. Before that, his previous game was on August 14 for the Springboks against Argentina. ALSO READ: ‘It’s gonna be lekker,’ says Whiteley about return to Lions’ den “The Lions are always full of intensity and we expect a very fast game,” Fassi said on Tuesday. “They love to play with a lot of intensity and keep the ball in play. “But then a lot of mistakes can also come into play and we need to be able to capitalise on the opportunities we get. If we get five chances, maybe we convert four of them, which would be great. “But I’m just super-excited to get out there and play. It’s the first time playing in the United Rugby Championship for a lot of us, and for some of us it’s the first time we’re playing a match in a long time,” Fassi said. ALSO READ: Lions ‘buzzing’ to take on Bok-laden Sharks in URC restart While it seems like the South African teams have been playing each other on an almost monthly basis when the rugby season has been in full swing, Fassi said the Sharks have their eyes set on improving their overseas performances in the new year. “Phase 1 of the URC was playing overseas and it was quite difficult for us,” said the exciting backline player. “But we will take those learnings into this year. Our goal is to improve and we look forward to rectifying those mistakes and building from there. “The things I’ve learnt from the Springboks, obviously I’m trying to bring those to the team and there are a couple of Boks bringing experience from there. “But we’re also taking knowledge from the URC guys as well, they’ve been telling us how the competition is.”