With production in Europe wrapping-up in March after what will be almost three decades, Ford has taken the wraps off of the all-new Mondeo only buyers in China will be privy to. Its reveal coming on the back of the Blue Oval’s above mentioned announcement last year, and after the axing of the related Fusion in 2018, the Mondeo arrives based on the same C2 platform as the Focus and Maverick with styling derived from the Evos, Equator and Equator Sport. Exclusive to China, the so-called “Progressive Energy in Strength” look is said to be in response to customer demand, and according to Ford, denotes the same three principles as the Evos, Equator and Equator Sport; “commanding, agile, and responsive”. ALSO READ: Ford bidding farewell to Mondeo in 2022 after three decades Compared to the outgoing European Mondeo, the Chinese model, which also resembles the Mustang Mach-E, measures 63 mm longer at 4 934 mm in overall length with its wheelbase spanning 2 945 mm. Standing 1 500 mm tall, the newcomer is 19 mm higher than the European version once sold under the Fusion name in South Africa, with its 1 875 mm width signalling a 23 mm increase. Despite Ford choosing not to reveal the interior, speculation is it will be similar to that of the Evos, meaning the inclusion of the 12.3-inch instrument cluster as well as the massive 27-inch touchscreen infotainment system on higher-end models. Similarly, Dearborn also didn’t disclose any technical details, but with the Mondeo sporting the EcoBoost 245 badge, motivation is all but confirmed to come from the same 2.0 EcoBoost petrol used in the Evos, Equator and Equator Sport. Producing 180 kW or, as the badge indicates, 245 pferdestarke (PS), the amount of twist is routed to the front wheels reportedly through an eight-speed automatic gearbox. A hybrid model is reportedly expected at a later stage. Although spied throughout last year undergoing testing outside of China, the Mondeo, as mentioned, won’t be offered anywhere but in the People’s Republic due to Ford’s focusing on more profitable SUVs and bakkies, as well as the declining demand for sedans in North America and Europe.