It’s been months since Evans Rusike last played some competitive football as the striker suffered an injury while he was on national duty following his departure from SuperSport United. READ ALSO: Mhango shines, Sangare flops: how sixteen SA based players are doing at Afcon And now, having healed and working to be back to his best, the newly signed Sekhukhune United FC forward is looking forward to his spell with Babina Noko and says there are quite a number of differences from both DStv Premiership clubs, but it is expected since every team have their own way of doing things, but Sekhukhune its more like a family environment. “I think each and every team has its own philosophy when it comes to training and all sorts of things. SuperSport is different from Sekhukhune. In-fact, let me talk about the technical team, it is quite different from the SuperSport one, it’s more like a family, the coach is always there to guide you, protect you and everything. And he is always talking to you about your personal goals,” said the lanky striker. “First things first, you have to be fit in order to play again. I have been out for quite some time and have been doing rehab for almost four months now. But I finished in December, and from that point I have been training and that has pushed me to be where I am at now. I am pushing fitness wise now, getting my confidence back, being back on the pitch, scoring, going into challenges and just to see where I am.” Known for his silky skills, scoring prowess with some amazing goals he scored in the past that saw him being linked with Kaizer Chiefs, Orlando Pirates and Mamelodi Sundowns in the past, the 31-year old Zimbabwean is looking to utilise all of his abilities in his quest to help Sekhukhune get positive results. “Each and every player has their strength. I want to use my strength for the success of the team, taking on defenders, getting goals, creating goals and all of that.” Rusike still has some time to work on his fitness as well as trying to gel with the rest of his new teammates with the league only resuming in mid-February.