Adele has pushed back the dates of her Las Vegas shows and the admired singer has left some fans frustrated.  The award-winning singer posted an emotional video confirming that her Las Vegas residency at the famous Colosseum in Caesars Palace had to be postponed because they were not ready.  “I am so sorry but my show ain’t ready. We’ve tried absolutely everything that we [could] to pull it together in time and for it to be good enough for you,” she said.  The show was expected to start on 21 January to April. Adele said half of her team has Covid-19, making it impossible to finish the show.  The singer-songwriter added what they have currently is not good enough, and is “gutted” and “embarrassed” with the last-minute cancellation.  Adele further apologised to people who already travelled to Las Vegas and booked accommodation to see her.  Rescheduling has already started, however, the late cancellation did not sit well with fans, who said artists in the past rarely rescheduled shows once they had cancelled.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. There was a spilt reaction on Twitter to Adele’s announcement, as there was also confusion on whether her crew was fully vaccinated or not.  Adele released her highly anticipated album 30 in November 2021 to wide acclaim.  Adele’s 30 sold more than 500,000 copies in the first week of sales, breaking Taylor Swift’s record of 462,000 sales for Evermore.  She had the biggest year for an individual artist.  Her decision to do Vegas instead of a world tour was based on her wanting to be close to her Los Angeles home and her son.  BangShowbiz reported that a source close to Adele said the singer admired Celine Dion and asked for advice on how to manage the workload. Dion advised Adele to do the Vegas residency for the sake of her family.  RELATED: No world tour? Adele announces Las Vegas residency