Actress Pearl Thusi was left heartbroken when she found out that her home staff have allegedly been stealing from her.  The Queen Sono actress shared on Twitter on Monday that learning this information has left her saddened.  “The saddest thing is when staff in your home steal from you, it’s like losing family. And without proof of who did it – you have to pay for their crime to let them go or deal with the CCMA. That’s actually crazy,” she tweeted.  People suggested that Thusi should gather as much evidence as she can to establish what happened.  The star replied that items in her home had gone missing, and apparently no one knows what happened to them.   ALSO READ: WTF?! R1 million nightclub bill shocks Twitter users “The stuff is just missing and no one knows what happened but they’re the only other people with access to the property missing [sic] I’m actually hurt. I really cared for these people,” she said.  There were suggestions that she should let her staff go and hire people who she could eventually trust.  The outspoken media personality is never far from controversy.  In 2021, she shared her frustration about her experience in business class on British Airways.  Thusi recounted her R6,000 flight from Johannesburg to Cape Town and tagged the airline during her rant, claiming they only served her sparkling and still water in business class. “SAA is serving food even if it’s still tricky, Airlink is serving food, also tricky but it’s there. British Airways is charging 6k for business class and all you get is water.” RELATED: Just water on business class? Pearl Thusi not happy with British Airways Thusi then added more competitors to her argument, saying Kulula and Mango would have had a “spaza moment” if she paid that much. “But here we are thinking we cute on business class but we are suffering,” she declared.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.