Marking its seventh year of production in 2022, Maruti Suzuki, in addition to the second generation Vitara Brezza, will reveal a more extensively updated Baleno reportedly sometime next month. According to Autocar India, the Baleno, as evident by spy images obtained by the publication, benefits from a new grille and headlights, a revised bonnet, the fog lamps and at the rear, a redesigned bumper and light cluster that cut into the bootlid. Despite no images of the interior cropping-up, the report, as well as a related article from gaadiwaadi.com, alleges the fitting of several new specification items, namely a wireless smartphone charger, cruise control, new air-conditioning controls with rear vents, and, as standard, six airbags. Along with Electronic Stability Control, a feature already available on the South African-spec model, higher-end derivatives will come with a model first Heads-Up Display, as well as a new infotainment system jointly developed with Toyota as part of the automaker’s partnership. ALSO READ: Suzuki preparing all-new Brezza for unveiling in 2022 Underneath, the Baleno will continue to make use of the Heartect platform, but with a series of tweaks in the shape thicker steel for the chassis, as well as door panels made from the same material in order to improve quality.  In India, the Baleno is likely to continue with the 1.2-litre Dualjet petrol engine that produces 66kW/113Nm or 61kW/113Nm with the inclusion of the mild-hybrid system.  Likely to also remain is the five-speed manual gearbox, though the optional CVT appears set to make way for a five-speed automated manual (AMT) as a means of cutting costs. Outside of India, the Baleno will likely retain the current combination of the 68kW/130Nm 1.4-litre petrol engine mated to either the five-speed manual or optional four-speed automatic ‘box. Once out, expect the various changes to be applied to the Baleno’s Toyota twin, the Glanza, which will once again be exported as the Starlet. While an official date-of-reveal remains unknown, expect an announcement in due course.