Niel Bruwer, a fruit farmer from Prince Albert Hamlet in the Western Cape who was part of the 13th season of kykNET’s popular Afrikaans matchmaker series, Boer Soek ’n Vrou just got married to Chereze Maree, whom he met during the series’ quick meeting sessions.  The couple got engaged at Lanzerac Wine Estate in July, which is where these quick meeting sessions were initially held. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. READ: ‘Boer Soek ’n Vrou’: Niel pops the question An exclusive photo of Niel and Chereze’s wedding day has been posted on  Boer Soek ’n Vrou’s Facebook page, showing the glowing couple looking elegant and content. On Friday, the day before the wedding, Chereze Maree (now Bruwer) shared a photo of her and her man, saying: “It’s our time. Now. Tomorrow you become my husband and I, with the biggest pride, your wife!! I can not wait. Love you.” Niel also shared a photo of him with his bride-to-be on Friday, saying: “There is so much symbolism in every step and every decision we have taken together, the symbolism of our second and biggest circle will be completed tomorrow, a road of hurt to the biggest blessing from our Father’s hand will be rounded off according to Jeremiah 29:11, because He knew and He still knows what he has planned for us. You are my biggest blessing; I honour you my almost wife.” Marciel Hopkins, the presenter of Boer Soek ’n Vrou’s 13th season and now also the presenter of the 14th season which just kicked off, shared the photo on her Facebook page, saying: “Congratulations dear Niel and Chereze! It is such a privilege to have been able to be part of your Boer Soek ’n Vrou love journey. My wish for you is a lifetime’s love, laughter and wonderful adventures.” And so, the couple’s Boer Soek ’n Vrou’s dream journey has come full circle, with a beautiful brunette in a white, lacy dress and a hunk in a tux.