Reports doing the rounds have suggested that AmaZulu are not going to renew the contract of Siyethemba Sithebe, who has been at the club for close to five years.ALSO READ: Royal AM to block Letsoalo move to Chiefs? Sithebe’s current deal with Usuthu expires at the end of June and he is free to negotiate with any team of his choice. However – according to a report by KickOff – the team are willing to sell the player in the current transfer window as he is clearly unhappy with the Benni McCarthy-led side, and want to cash in on him instead of losing him for free in June. The 29-year-old has seen a significant drop in performance this season as he has not scored a single goal or made any assist in the DStv Premiership this season as opposed to three goals and three assists in the previous campaign. He also drew blanks in four of his Caf Champions League games for Usuthu as they made their way into the group stages for the first time in the team’s history. Sithebe is believed to be on his way to Kaizer Chiefs, but where will the dreadlocked player fit in Stuart Baxter’s set-up? Playmaker The Glamour Boys don’t have many options when it comes to a natural playmaker, otherwise referred to as a No.10. Captain Bernard Parker is usually slotted in that space but operates in more of a free-role capacity. Sithebe can come in handy for Baxter where creativity is concerned. He is a versatile midfielder who can slot in a deeper role, which would help Cole Alexander where the workload is concerned.An experienced campaigner Mamelodi Sundowns are champions in waiting, given their form and ruthlessness this season – it is clearly their DStv title to lose. This means the rest of the pack will have to chase for that second spot that qualifies them for the Champions League. Sithebe having helped Usuthu finish as league runners-up last season, his experience, paired with the desire to play in the Champions League, will come in handy. Discipline Sithebe is probably one of the few players in the top-flight who does not pick up many yellow cards. Over the past four seasons and a half in the colours of Usuthu, he averages about three yellow cards per season, which does not amount to a suspension. He missed just three games last season, none in the one before that and was left out twice in the 2018/19 campaign. He is a disciplined player and he manages to stay injury free.