Premier of KwaZulu-Natal Sihle Zikalala has welcomed the recent return of South African Airways (SAA) and Qatae Airways to King Shaka International Airport in Durban. SAA announced that its first scheduled flight will take off from Johannesburg’s OR Tambo International Airport to the King Shaka airport on 4 March.  This will be the first time in almost two years since the airline exited the route. The premier says this move will help boost the economic recovery of the province.  ALSO READ: ‘Back by popular demand’ – SAA to resume flights to Durban “Efficient and regular aviation services are necessary if we are to increase visits to our province, grow tourism numbers, and create jobs up and down the value-chain,” Zikalala said on Thursday. SAA will fly the route seven days per week at least three times a day on a return service between the two cities. “The uptick in tourism numbers, which is directly related to aviation links, can only mean that KZN is truly on the rise, and that better things will come in 2022.  “SAA is a major global brand in the aviation, travel and tourism industry, and it remains recognisable to tourists and visitors wanting to visit our country from all corners of the globe,” said Zikalala. He also welcomed Qatar Airways’ return to Durban following its withdrawal ahead of the festive season, due to Covid-19 related health and safety concerns.  Qatar, the Gulf airline headquartered in Doha, resumed flying from KwaZulu-Natal on 14 January with an initial frequency of four flights a week. According to Zikalala, the resumption of SAA and Qatar Air flights between Johannesburg and Durban, Durban and Doha (Qatar’s capital) respectively, will benefit the tourism sector which remains one of the greatest creators of employment in KwaZulu-Natal’s economy. ALSO READ: Taking to the skies: Reviving SAA to its former glory “The past 20 months since SAA terminated the Durban route have been particularly difficult.  “However, as government, we never stopped engaging SAA – even as the airline was repackaging its business model,” said Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs MEC, Ravi Pillay. “This is a fresh start, and a timely boost to our economic recovery efforts.  “It strengthens our argument that the Durban route is a significant cog in the revival of the aviation industry in South Africa,” he added.