On top of their massive partnerships with big companies, Orlando Pirates have announced a new joint venture with one of the biggest smart devices brands, Oppo South Africa, as their mobile partner on Thursday morning. READ ALSO: Orlando Pirates plead not guilty to Sukazi charge Oppo, who are known for their innovation, design and technology also partners with the likes of international football giants FC Barcelona and AC Milan, as well as the International Cricket Council (ICC) and the ICC World Cup. This partnership is said to see both institutions create joint exclusive initiatives, with the aim of connecting and exciting all sports, tech, innovative and stylish South African supporters. In one of their initiatives, they will engage with the Buccaneers fans whereby there will be the OPPO goal of the month competition, where the Ghosts will vote for their favourite goal scored by their and one lucky winner will walk away with a new Oppo phone. The Soweto giant’s brand and sponsorship manager Joseph Bertrand says they are excited and welcome the mobile brand to Pirates. “Orlando Pirates is a Club with vast history yet very innovative and forward thinking, some characteristics that we share with OPPO, a cutting-edge and globally acclaimed brand,” Bertrand was quoted in a statement. Oppo’s SA CEO Sam Zhang, says Oppo and Bucs share many values and they are looking  forward to their relationship. “OPPO and Orlando Pirates share many values, including dedication to high performance and innovation, which resonates with fans and our customers in South Africa. We are looking forward to this collaboration with Orlando Pirates and changing the way football supporters see things, changing the way the game is played, changing how we do things – together we want to bring fans closer to the game and support the next generation of footballers in South Africa,” he said. Oppo joins the likes of Vodacom, Carling Black Label Beer,EA Sports, Ultimate Sports Nutrition (USN), Ford, Caltex, Aquelle and Roman’s Pizza.