Alfa Romeo will officially end almost two years of speculative reports when it reveals the much delayed Tonale on 8 February. Set to be released under the banner, “La Metamorfosi”, which hints at the model’s metamorphosis from petrol to electric propulsion, the Tonale is set to ride on the same platform as the Jeep Compass, but with an obvious Alfa Romeo design as indicated by the concept shown at the Geneva Motor Show three years ago. Delayed twice due to alleged “unacceptable performance” and to avoid impeding on the reveal of the updated Fiat Panda, the Tonale will slot in below the Stelvio and until the arrival of the Brennero, serve as Alfa Romeo’s entry-level SUV offering. Leaked in supposed prototype form mere months after the concept’s reveal, images both Alfa Romeo and parent company Stellantis have remained surprisingly mum on, the Tonale, based on documents leaked in December, will measure 4,528 mm in overall length with its wheelbase stretching 2,636 mm and width 1,835 mm. The reported height is 1,604 mm. ALSO READ: Broader range of engines rumoured for Alfa Romeo Tonale While set to mirror the Stelvio externally and to a degree, inside, the biggest topic of debate has been the choice of powertrains. Based on reports, the line-up will comprise a single turbodiesel engine, two conventional turbocharged petrols, a plug-in hybrid and most recently, two instead of the previous one mild-hybrid petrol. Accordingly, diesel power will come from a 96 kW version of the long-serving 1.6 Multijet unit, while the pair of turbo-petrol will comprise an allege 2.0-litre with 186 kW and the Brazilian made and developed 1.3-litre Firefly with the same 96 kW as the Renegade and Compass. The plug-in hybrid option will be identical to that of the Compass and Renegade 4xe, i.e. the mentioned Firefly combined with an 11.4-kWh battery for a total system output of 177 kW. On the mild-hybrid front, the already named 48-volt assisted Firefly, set to produce 118 kW, will be joined by a brand-new 1.5-litre turbo Jeep added to the European-spec Compass and Renegade last week.  Also combined with a 48-volt battery, the unit produces the same 96kW/270Nm as the Firefly, but comes with an overboost function that raises torque by 55 Nm for short bursts. Transmission choices, shrouded in similar mystery, are likely to consist of a seven-speed dual-clutch, an eight-speed torque converter automatic and possibly a six-speed manual on the diesel and conventional Firefly turbo-petrol. The plug-in hybrid, if the rumoured 2.0-litre option proves otherwise, is set to serve as the flagship option in Veloce spec as a QV derivative won’t be happening. Aside from the Veloce, the Tonale’s remaining trim levels will comprise Super, Sprint and Ti denominators. In Italy, the Tonale will carry a reported starting sticker price of €28 000 (R483 442) with sales set to start in June. However, expect more details, either official or in the form of leaks, to be divulged before its reveal next month.