Lindie Strydom recently took to Instagram, sharing a photo of herself indulging in some fine cuisine and a glass of red wine with her husband, Johann while celebrating their 20th anniversary.  As she looked back on the two decades of married life, she reminisced about the first day she saw Johann.  “Sounds like a fairy tale to me too when I think that I saw Johann from behind at church that evening and the words fell out of my mouth: ‘There stands the man I am going to marry. I can already see our curly head children…’” In the honest post about her and her husband’s road of marriage, she also shared that they got engaged – in the snow, in Harrismith – a mere six weeks after their first date.  It was only six months later – 12 January 2002 – that they got married. What do they say… When you know, you know.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. READ: Lindie Strydom remembers Shaleen Surtie-Richards Lindie Strydom certainly doesn’t allow grass to grow under her feet. She was only eighteen years old when she landed her role as Karin Schoeman Edwards in the M-Net soap opera, Egoli.  She’s clearly a go-getter of note, and her vision of her and the stranger from church’s curly-haired children soon became reality. “Today we share a life and a home with the most beautiful ‘curly head children’ and I thank God for a great many unique truths, opportunities and real-life examples that helped form us over the past twenty years.” Lindie says that marriage requires grace, it teaches grace, and it gives grace and that their life together is a reminder of God’s grace.  In her post she posed the question once asked by Gary Thomas: “What if God intended marriage to make us holy, more than to make us happy?” She says that her and her husband’s love for each other and to make their relationship a priority is the biggest gift they can give to their children, Paul, Hugo and Nina. The motivational speaker and presenter recently had to pack up her and her family’s life in Centurion, swopping the Jacaranda city for the mountains and the sea in Somerset West with her husband Johann and their three children.  Johann, an engineer, had accepted a new job and they moved down to the Cape early in 2021.