Springbok captain, Siya Kolisi’s wife and the co-founder of the Kolisi Foundation, Rachel Kolisi has recently announced that she is “officially a student – again!” In an Instagram post where she poses in black and white sports attire, Kolisi wrote that she has been wanting to study for a long time now, but just didn’t have the opportunity. She said that she “finally decided to take a dive and do it” although she is still trying to figure out how she is going to manage everything. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Rachel Kolisi’s post came as a form of inspiration for the new year, as she said that she hoped that her fans and followers would manage to find the time to get pen to paper, setting goals for themselves. “Remember a dream without a plan is just a dream,” she wrote. Rachel did not mention what she plans to study this year, but she sure looks ready for it. The businesswoman has been in the headlines on many occasions, most recently in relation to her husband’s memoir, Rise. In October, she posted a photo of her holding the book, saying that she had had the book for weeks, but she had been reading it slowly just to take it all in. READ: Springbok skipper Kolisi’s memoir ‘Rise’ is available now “I may be married to the guy,” she wrote “but there were so many stories I had never heard before.” Rachel wanted to share her thoughts of the honest memoir with her followers, saying: “I laughed, I sobbed, I often had to stop and think about the many important points that were raised.” She said that for her, it was a true South African story, unpacking toxic masculinity, GBV, how to manage pressure, and the importance of living with intention. “Most importantly how to rise when everyone expects you to fall,” she wrote. In a way, Rachel Kolisi’s announcement about being a student again, proves her support for her husband in the continuous life challenge of rising when others expect you to fall.