Uzalo’s Gugu Gumede will soon be welcoming a new tiny member to her family. The actress took to her personal Instagram page to announce her first pregnancy sharing a stunning photograph of her wearing a beautiful floor length black dress showing off her adorable baby bump during her pregnancy photo shoot.  In the caption of her post, she starts off by quoting a bible verse relating to her pregnancy and the child she will soon give birth to.  “1 Samuel 1: 27-28 ‘For this child I prayed; and the Lord hath given me my petition which I asked of him’,” quoted Gumede.  ALSO READ: ‘Uzalo’ breaks SABC viewing records The mom-to-be then went on to talk about her mother, Zanele KaMagwaza Msibi who passed away last year, and how she has found the strength to continue living from her unborn child who has the “strongest heart”. “I have often been asked where I got the strength to continue after my mother’s passing – I got it from my unborn child. At her funeral, as I stood at the podium and spoke on my queen’s behalf, I was not alone. The strongest heart was beating inside of me, reviving me. I am alive today because of it,” said the actress.  Gugu then shares a sweet message for her unborn child, saying that they are their grandmother’s answered prayers, and that even though they cannot be together physically, Gugu’s mother will always be there for the child spiritually.  “My baby, you are your grandmother’s answered prayer. She was so excited to meet you; even though you did not get to meet in the physical realm, I know she is currently holding you in the spiritual,” said the mom-to-be. She ends off her post by saying that with every kick and movement she feels from her unborn child, she is reminded of the love that God, as well as her mother have for her. She also says how her baby has changed her, and that she and her loved ones cannot wait to meet her baby.  “My darling, every move and every kick of yours within me is a testament of both God and my mother’s continued love for me. You have changed me in ways that are inexplicable. We cannot wait to meet you,” says Gumede. The 30-year-old’s co-stars and celebrity friends such as Celeste Ntuli, Winnie Ntshaba, Zola Mbona, Ayanda Borotho, Nhlanhla Nciza and many more took to the comment section of her post to congratulate her and wish her well on her journey as a first-time mom.