American media personality Khloe Kardashian’s personal life with her former partner Tristan Thompson is back in the spotlight once again.  The reality star and businesswoman’s relationship has grabbed headlines for all the wrong reasons, and a big chunk of that is due to Tristan’s frequent cheating scandals.  It was reported by US media that the latest scandal won’t see the two reconcile anytime soon.  Khloe and Tristan have a 3-year-old daughter, True, while the basketball player also has two other children, with two different women.  Tristan made another woman pregnant while he was still with Khloe, early in 2021.  A source close to Khloe claimed she was now done with Tristan and would never take him back again, People magazine reported. When news reports came out late last year that Maralee Nichols, a personal trainer, claimed Tristan was the father of her child, these claims were at first denied. ALSO READ: Dineo Ranaka may have just responded to Metro FM suspension There was a dispute over the paternity of the baby, but Tristan then confirmed earlier this month that he was indeed the father of the baby.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. In the past, Khloe and Tristan gave their relationship many chances despite several cheating allegations.  The Keeping Up With the Kardashian’s star is leaning on friends and family, particularly her mother Kris Jenner, for support after Tristan’s latest shocking revelation.  Khloe and Tristan are still communicating for the sake of their daughter, which was revealed during one of Kanye West’s rants last week.  The rapper was complaining that his estranged wife Kim Kardashian did not invite him to their daughter Chicago’s birthday party.  In the video, Kanye says that he called Tristan to get the address to the party but he would call Khloe to get the details. Tristan apologised to Khloe for the latest humiliation through a post on Instagram.  He wrote: “Khloé, you don’t deserve this. You don’t deserve the heartache and humiliation I have caused you. You don’t deserve the way I have treated you over the years. My actions certainly have not lined up with the way I view you. I have the utmost respect and love for you. Regardless of what you may think.  “Again, I am so incredibly sorry.”