There is going to be a lot more music we will be listening to in 2022, and Shazam has assisted us in finding these new artists.  The app that helps you put a name to a song or artist that you may not know has created a playlist that highlights five artists that will make waves on the internet this year.  In a statement, Shazam used their database and algorithms, hand-selected by Apple Music’s global editorial team. They narrowed down a 50-track selection of feature songs that predict early growth and consistent upward trajectory on the app.  According to Shazam, these artists are a global mix and emerging artists hailing from 25 countries and representing 17 genres, from mandopop to regional Mexicano and hip-hop hybrids. The songstress from Lagos, Nigeria is likely to see a continued rise in her career after the breakout hit Bloody Samaritan.  The song has already been viewed over five million times on YouTube after it was released in July 2021. Her debut album 19 & Dangerous, showcased her authentic sound by an alluring violin melody that drops into contagious Afropop magic.  YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Jolly B: The ‘godfather’ of Spitori and UK drill rap The rising Mexican American singer is featured on TikTok hit Jugaste y Sufrí, which was 2021’s most Shazamed regional Mexicano track. Despite the song being released at the end of 2020, it propelled DannyLux’s career. The songwriter is part of a new generation helping to rejuvenate corridos for a new generation.  The sing songwriter went viral with her song Producer Man in 2020. She followed up that with a single titled In My Mind which became a soulful anthem on social media.  This song become the artist’s most Shazamed song as it charted in countries such as Brazil, Indonesia and America. It is expected she will release more music.  Music genres aren’t as important as they were many years ago. This is why artists today aren’t afraid to dabble in many sounds.  This couldn’t be more true for the duo Sad Night Dynamite, mixing up a hypnotic blend of electronica, hip-hop, and Britpop.  Their latest single Demon features South African musician Moonchild Sanelly even earning a spot on the FIFA 22 soundtrack. Korean content has taken over the world.  K-dramas and K-pop’s popularity has seen groups like Blackpink and BTS become global superstars.  Another K-Pop girl group STAYC released a catchy bubblegum pop titled ASAP. The single has remained on the South Korean Shazam charts and continues to make STAYC quite popular in the genre. Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele