Since his split with his estranged wife, Kim Kardashian, Kanye West is trying to navigate his ‘new normal’. The rapper has been spotted with his new girlfriend, 31-year-old actress Julia Fox, in public recently. Kanye and Julia started dating in December 2021. It may be just new, but the couple has grabbed a lot of attention in the last few weeks.  31 December: The Uncut Gems actress Fox reportedly met ‘Ye’ on New Year’s Eve at a surprise Miami performance.  On 6 January, according to Glamour, the American rapper and the actress decided to go on a second date in New York. The two went to see a Broadway show together, called Slave Play, and dined at Italian American restaurant Carbone afterwards. They later went to their hotel room where the fashion designer surprised her with a suite of clothes. “I mean, I’m still in shock. Ye had an entire hotel suite full of clothes. It was every girl’s dream come true. It felt like a real Cinderella moment. I don’t know how he did it, or how he got all of it there in time. But I was so surprised. Like, who does things like this on a second date? Or any date”, she told the Interview magazine. On 13 January, the model addressed a few issues regarding talk of her relationship with the record producer, on her podcast, Forbidden Fruit. She also gave her fans a behind the scenes look at a few moments that occurred on their second date.  On 22 January, the new couple made their red carpet debut at the Paris Men’s Fashion Week in matching denim-on-denim looks.  Though the two have been dating for less than a month, they have taken taking social media by storm. Some have commented on how affectionate they are towards each other and how Kanye has changed the way Fox dresses – which tweeps weren’t surprised about because he did the same with Kim.  Fox is an American actress, artist, model, and filmmaker. The 31-year-old was born on 2 February 1990 in Milan, Italy, to an Italian mother and an American father.  Prior to her role in Uncut Gems, Fox was a clothing designer and launched a successful women’s knitwear line, Franziska Fox, with her friend Briana Andalore. She self-published two books of photography, Symptomatic of a Relationship Gone Sour: Heartburn/Nausea, in 2015, and PTSD, in 2016. Many wonder whether this could just be a publicity stunt to get Kim back. Kanye was spotted kissing his new girlfriend at Miami Airport.  Those who know Kanye, know how discreet he usually is.  Kim and Kanye had been married for six years before talks of a divorce started, and Kanye’s actions keep taking people by surprise. When he staged the Donda listening concert, he and Kim re-enacted their wedding ceremony; raising suspicions on whether they will go forward with their divorce.  Kanye hasn’t signed the divorce papers yet.  ALSO READ: Kim Kardashian finally shows off her new boyfriend, Pete Davidson