There is something to be said about the rising popularity of tourism in Limpopo and much of that growth can be attributed to a certain golf tournament and the growing number of lifestyle estates in the province.  Limpopo Tourism recently hosted a media event to announce the fourth annual Limpopo Championship dates and explained what avid golf enthusiasts can expect this year. The event was held at the luscious Euphoria Golf and Lifestyle Estate on 12 January. The Limpopo Championship was conceptualised with the aim of building the community around the estate of Modimolle, by giving them work opportunities, economic growth and teaching the next generation the game of golf.  As such, organisers have declared that the recently launched academy attached to the initiative is for everyone as the lessons are given by Professional Golfers’ Association (PGA) members who can teach you to master a bogey.  Euphoria is a four-star estate that also hosted President Cyril Ramaphosa during his recent visit to Limpopo and one couldn’t help but wonder what amenities it had on offer for busy Joburgers and those just looking for an escape.  Just a two and a half hour drive from the city of gold, the estate is great for those with busy lifestyles.  Valerie Gwasira, marketing manager of the estate, explained that Euphoria’s aim is to be a family estate and inclusive for everybody.  They have an exclusive water park that has waterslides, swimming pools, super tubes and with the province’s weather, these offer a much-needed cooler.   We had the amazing opportunity to hop in one of the cable cars going up to the mountains giving you breathtaking 360° views of the estate and the vast golf course.  On top of the mountain is the restaurant Ntshonalanga, where we were treated to a traditional South African meal. Receiving no complaints, the food was delicious! From the pap and cranberry rice right down to the fish and an array of tasty salads.  The estate also has another restaurant and bar called Jonalanga where they serve Italian-infused items on the menu laden with pizzas and pasta dishes.   To unwind, there is a spa fantastic for those needing to reconnect with themselves or just relax, says Gwasira. To see the golf course, one need only hop onto a segway (a portable two-wheeler scooter) and have the chance to play as well. If you still feel like seeing more of what Limpopo has to offer, the Crocodile Farm is about 6km away as is a big five game reserve.  For an adrenaline rush, Limpopo’s Fumani Game Lodge offers quad biking just about a 10-minute drive from Euphoria.  The rooms at Euphoria pride themselves on being bigger than normal hotel rooms, which is true. The villas are fitted with king-sized beds and ensuite baths with separate showers and the rooms all face a balcony.  Gwasria adds they are fortunate to be busy throughout the year with a mixture of conferences and golf events on the weekend that can be quite lucrative.  The estate is great for family getaways, groups or just a solo oasis alone, particularly for people looking to improve their golf game.  The fourth annual Limpopo Championships will take place from 31 March to 3 April 2022 at Euphoria Golf and Lifestyle Estate and Koro Creek Bushveld Golf Estate.