There’s something about the new year that gives everyone an appetite for change.  It’s why New Year’s resolutions are so popular, even though most people end up abandoning them long before the end of January. One of the simplest ways to satisfy your craving for something new is by expanding your palate.  When was the last time you tried out a new food item? Most people are overdue for a new taste experience but have no idea where to start.  Don’t stray too far from what you enjoy.  Let’s say a classic burger and chips meal is your idea of a good time. Start by keeping the burger and ordering a new side. For now, it’s just about getting comfortable with ordering something you’re not used to.  The more times you try out something new, the more you will end up enjoying it, and the more often you’ll want to step outside your food comfort zone. For most people, eating is a passive activity that doesn’t need that much concentration. But you’re doing yourself a disservice if you vacuum your meal up as quickly as possible.  What happened to really savouring your food? The next time you try out a new meal, take your time. Enjoy all the flavours on the end of your fork before you go in for another bite. ALSO READ: Recipe of the day: Saucy sausage pasta with broccoli Navigating a new culinary terrain can be a bit tricky, which is why it’s always best to find someone or something to point you in the right direction.  Let’s say it’s midday and you’re faced with the question that always comes around during your break: ‘What am I going to have for lunch?’ Check out Wimpy’s new burger quiz to have all the deliciousness minus all the decision making. Answer a few simple questions and Wimpy will figure out which burger is best for you. If you’re a creature of habit, just the mention of your favourite burger is enough to make your mouth water. You can almost taste your familiar favourite just by thinking about it.  And that’s why it’s time to get the other senses involved. You already know what your go-to burger tastes like, but the same can’t be said about your potential new favourite. The next time you place an order, go purely off the strength of the meal’s visual appeal.  There aren’t many meals that don’t taste as good as they look, so you’ll probably make a good choice either way. Don’t forget the golden rule: Food is meant to be enjoyed. This is one of those situations where the journey is just as important as the destination. If you end up ordering something you’re in no rush to eat again, it’s not a big deal.  Now you never have to wonder if that meal is any good! Expanding your palate isn’t rocket science. If you’re a bit adventurous and attentive, a whole new world of culinary delights can be opened to your taste buds.  If all the tips mentioned above could be summarised into a phrase, it would be: ‘Just try it. ’