When the DStv Premiership resumes in mid-February, industrious midfielders Thabo Nodada and Mpho Makola will sit out a few of Cape Town City games due to suspensions. Nodada will serve his two-match red card suspension in February while Makola is set to undergo a six-game ban as a result of manhandling referee Cladwin Baloyi during the MTN8 final penalty shoot-out. READ ALSO: Zealous Rusike raring to roll the ball in the net for Sekhukhune This is why they see the opportunity to play in the DStv Compact Cup as a good chance for them to keep in shape and in form. The cup competition, which is being held for the first time, has seen the 16 Premiership teams divided into four streams and will play the games next week. It has received varying reviews from different football sectors but as it gets closer it is gaining some momentum and the supporters are getting excited.  “I am pretty excited,” said Nodada on Wednesday. “I am on a red card as you may know and it is going to be a while till I get back on the pitch and play. So, being given an opportunity to play now in January is amazing,” he added. Asked which player from the other Coastal stream teams he was looking forward to playing alongside the most, he said it was Stellenbosch’s speedy forward Ashley Du Preez. Nodada already has a plan on how he will connect with Du Preez to get the best out of his acceleration skills.   “I am looking forward to playing with the Stellenbosch striker Du Preez. I think he is a really good player and I am looking forward to putting the balls behind the strikers for him to chase.”  His City colleague, Mpho Makola also said he was excited at the prospect of playing in this tournament especially because he was voted into the team by the supporters – and this means they hold him in high regard.  “I am excited. I mean it is something that has never happened before in the country, and I think every player who will be involved in it is looking forward to it.  “I am just looking forward to playing with any player who has been voted into our team, especially players who are not from my team (City),” he said.  “To the fans, I just want to say thanks for the endless support over the years and if I am given an opportunity to play on the day, I will do my best,” said the former Olrando Pirates and Free State Stars midfielder.