Revived in 2018 as the replacement for the 6 Series, BMW has given the 8 Series its first mid-life refresh inside and out. Applicable to the coupe, cabriolet and four-door Gran Coupe, the exterior revisions include a wider kidney grille with surround illumination, standard adaptive LED or optional Matrix LED headlights and optional 20-inch M light alloy wheels. New for the M850i are 20-inch M Performance light alloys, U-shaped grille bars in gloss black, the M mirrors previously exclusive to the M8 and a new M Sport Package comprising body coloured front and rear aprons, a dark shadow finished rear diffuser, the blue M Sport brake calipers and double-spoke 19-inch M light alloys. As part of the M division’s 50th anniversary this year, all models can be optionally fitted with the BMW Motorsport logo on the grille, bonnet, wheel hubs and tailgate in place of the usual BMW roundel. ALSO READ: Meet the BMW’s new ambassador Also updated is the colour palette to include four new hues; San Remo Green Metallic, M Portimao Blue Metallic, Skyscraper Grey Metallic and Frozen Tanzanite Blue Metallic, the latter part of the BMW Individual catalogue. Inside, the rework has been minor and limited to the 10.25-inch iDrive infotainment system departing in favour of a 12.3-inch, while the entry-level 840i can now be equipped with the previously forbidden multi-function seats finished in an assortment of Merino leathers. Underneath the bonnet, the 8 Series continues unchanged with the 3.0-litre turbocharged straight-six producing 250kW/500Nm in the mentioned 840i, and the 4.4-litre bi-turbo V8 390kW/750Nm in the M850i. The only model to feature mild-hybrid system, the 48-volt unit has not impacted on the 840d‘ outputs with 250kW/700Nm continuing to be available from the 3.0-litre straight-six mill.  As before, all of the powerunits are matched to an eight-speed Steptronic gearbox with the xDrive all-wheel-drive standard on all but the 840i where it can be equipped as an option. While pricing remains unknown, BMW South Africa has confirmed availability of all of the mentioned engines, as well as the standard fitting of the M Performance package on the M850i. This means the inclusion of brake calipers, a black M bootlid spoiler and the M Shadow Line package consisting of blacked-out taillight clusters and gloss black exterior trim. Expect clearer details surrounding price soon.