With Monday being the last day of player transfers in the PSL, there has not been any rush with little or no action on the day.ALSO READ: Unhappy Matlaba hands in Swallows transfer requestThere are however some transfers that could still happen in the last hours before the close of the mid-season transfer window.  Here is a look at three top transfers that could still happen:  Sithebe to Kaizer Chiefs – This one has become a game of chess and the latest update is that AmaZulu are waiting on Kaizer Chiefs to make their next move. Usuthu have opened their arms to negotiate an early release of Siyethemba Sithebe who already has a pre-contract with Chiefs. Phakaaathi has however learnt  that the asking price that Usuthu have set is a bit too steep for Chiefs.  “I am not entirely sure how much but I have heard it is in the region of R7-million and that’s a bit too much for a player who will be available for free in four months’ time,” said a source.  Mbule to Sundowns – Sundowns, according to Sipho Mbule’s agent Mike Makaab are the only club who have made an official offer for the midfielder. And with them having already secured Teboho Mokoena, they are expected to also complete the transfer of Mbule. People privy to the deal have revealed that it still might happen with SuperSport offered a few players as a swap deal or on loan for the time being.  Ndlovu to Maritzburg United – Siphesihle Ndlovu is reported to be unsettled at Orlando Pirates where he has realised it will be difficult for him to hold down a place.  What makes his situation worse is that he has not been assigned a position and is used more as utility player covering everywhere where the team is thin.  There have been talks that he could be loaned out with Maritzburg United likely to land him. But Maritzburg are believed to want to sign him permanently and not just as a loanee. The latest on this deal is that there has not been much  happening but it could still happen quietly just before the window closes.