Its debut looming closer in spite of an official date still being unknown, Volkswagen has resumed teasing the all-new Amarok in yet another sketch drawing. Shown towing a trailer with a snowmobile while lugging crates and drums, the stormy winter weather depiction provides the first sight of the side-profile, which appears to have more in-common with the current model rather than the new Ford Ranger on which it is based. Sporting the same black wheel arch cladding as the erstwhile limited edition Canyon, the image, apart from confirming the availability of side-steps, doesn’t reveal much else, but does provide a clear indication of what to expect inside. While showcased with the most recent teaser last year, the newest shows the Amarok being the recipient of the same dashboard as the Ranger, but with what appears to be a different infotainment system based on the graphics and design. Compared to the Ranger, which gets a tablet-like 12-inch display on top-spec models, the setup in the Amarok appears to fall in-line with current Volkswagen’s models, though expect a clearer picture to emerge in due course. Also shown is a digital instrument cluster which appears similar to that of the Ranger. “The uncluttered, masculine architecture, the elements designed in a machine-like fashion, the clear, taut surfaces and particularly high-quality cockpit raise the Volkswagen DNA to a new level and emphasise the Amarok’s right to claim premium vehicle status,” Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles Head of Design, Albert-Johann Kirzinger, said in statement. ALSO READ: Volkswagen Amarok exterior and interior previewed in fresh teasers Confirmed to benefit from safety and driver assistance systems, Wolfsburg declined to provide any other specific details, merely stating that the Amarok will be “featuring innovations that have not been seen before in this segment”. It also didn’t reveal specifics about the powertrain choices, stating that the Amarok will be powered by a range of market specific engines, including a V6 TDI. As is known by now though, the newcomer, which will be build alongside the Ranger and new Everest at Ford’s Silverton Plant in Pretoria following the Blue Oval’s record R15.8-billion investment last year, will drop the current Volkswagen made engines for Ford units. This means the end of Wolfsburg’s 2.0-litre single and bi-turbodiesel engines, as well as the 190kW/580Nm 3.0 TDI V6, and fitting of Dearborn’s 2.0-litre Panther units of similar turbo application, as well as the 3.0-litre V6 that did duty in the F-150 under the Powerstroke moniker. While production commences in Pretoria, the trio of engines will be manufactuered at the Straundale Engine Plant in Port Elizabeth after Ford announced a further investment of R600-million into the facility last November. Spied back in September undergoing testing, the Amarok, as mentioned, will be revealed later this year with Volkswagen having confirmed availability in South Africa from the end of 2022.