KykNET‘s Boer Soek ‘n Vrou presenter Marciel Hopkins made personal deliveries of all the farmers’ letters in the second episode of the series’ 14th season last night.  Here are the five farmers who will be going to Cape Town in the next episode to meet the top ten girls that they choose from their bags and bags of letters. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Willem was the first farmer to hear that he would have to test his theory of falling in love at first sight when he meets the top ten girls who wrote to him. His friend, Carin and his brother-in-law, Stefan shared in the fun of reading some of the letters, highlighting one girl who enjoys a bit of sarcasm.  Some letters were more romantic than others. There was even a girl who wrote: “My armpits started itching when I saw you,” which made Willem and his fellow letter readers chuckle. Farmer Johan fell over his words as he reacted to his first letter, written by Michaela, who wrote that his eyes and peaceful nature stirred something inside her.  Marciel arrived with one bag, but later surprised him with another two bags filled with letters – something he said he definitely did not expect. “Johan, here are more than enough letters and packages to bring you to the Cape, where you’ll meet ten women,” Marciel told the farmer in search of love, reminding him that he had a mere 24 hours to choose ten women from the three bags of letters whom he would like to meet. He had to call in his brother, Gerhard and his sister, Mari who came to help him read through all the letters until late.  They laughed and giggled at many a letter, especially the one from a girl who wrote: “My name must be John Deere, because I’m totally a-tractored to you.” READ: ‘Boer Soek ’n Vrou’ – Meet the season 14 farmers looking for love The shy Nelis was also lucky enough to get two bags of letters from girls across the country, smiling all the way.  One girl wrote that her mother always said that one needs to marry someone who you think is beautiful, because then you’ll never be able to stay angry at that face.  Nelis was happy to hear that he would have to choose that face from the ten girls he’s due to meet in the next episode. As his friends, JP and Corné helped him sift through the letters, while he joked that no one ever says such nice things as the things said in the letters to him.  Then, with naughty farmer smiles, they told Marciel that they’ve decided to give preference to the biggest boxes and the packages with snacks to make the process a little less strenuous.   Petré clearly impressed girls all over the country, with one writing to him saying that he gave her butterflies.  As he read another letter from a girl in Pretoria, a second and a third bag of letters got dropped off, leaving the farmer dumbstruck.  For Petré, who likes to win, it was wonderful to hear that he will be going to Cape Town to meet his top ten chosen girls in the next episode, although he says that Boer Soek ’n Vrou is no competition to him, but rather a chance to meet the one his heart is longing for.  “It’s a wonderful privilege,” he said. Petré’s friend, Jakkie almost sounded a little discouraged when he realised that it was going to be a long night of reading letters and taking everything into consideration.  His other friend, Linde said the large amount of letters was overwhelming and together they took on the challenge of finding the perfect ten girls for him to meet. Tyson got a rather heavy bag of letters himself. From a gift marked “Ty’s Braai Box” to perfumed socks, and a T-shirt with ‘Boertjie Boertjie’ written on it, he sure got some interesting gifts from confident girls. Marciel was very serious when she reminded Tyson about the fact that he had been reluctant to enter Boer Soek ’n Vrou, after which another bag of letters was dropped off in the room.  “There really is no turning back now,” she told him. And then, another bag. And, another until there were five bags of letters for the English farmer, making Tyson the farmer who got the most letters for season 14.  “No ways, really?” he said, laughing nervously. “I really did not expect this.” Tyson’s friend, Bernic came to help sift through his mountain of letters in order to choose the right ten girls for the next step. One thing is certain, the next episode of Boer Soek ’n Vrou will be filled with much excitement and a whole lot of nerves as these five farmers meet their top tens.