Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates will both face DStv Premiership opposition in the last 32 of the Nedbank Cup, following  the draw in Johannesburg Wednesday. ALSO READ: Former Pirates striker Shonga looking to revive career at new club Amakhosi will take on TS Galaxy and the Buccaneers meet AmaZulu, and while both Soweto giants could have had easier draws, they do both have home advantage for the ties. Chiefs against Galaxy is a repeat of the 2019 Nedbank Cup final, when the Rockets, then playing in the GladAfrica Championship, stunned Steve Komphela’s Chiefs 1-0 in the final at the Moses Mabhida Stadium. Galaxy now play in the Premiership of course, after buying the top flight status of Highlands Park in 2020. The two teams have met three times in the Premiership since that Nedbank Cup shock, with Amakhosi winning once, and two goalless draws, including early in the current campaign. Galaxy are not having the best of seasons, currently rock bottom of the table with just 13 points from 17 matches, and Chiefs will be heavy favourites to reach the last 16, though they were also heavy favourites in the 2019 final. Pirates against AmaZulu, meanwhile, sees the Buccaneers again go up against their former striker Benni McCarthy. The Buccaneers played Usuthu as recently as December 23, in their last league game before the Christmas break, with Pirates winning 2-1, courtesy of a brace from Ghanaian striker Kwame Peprah. The two sides played to a 1-1 draw in KZN earlier in the same month in the first round of the league. Usuthu generally have  poor record against Pirates, having not beaten them in any competition since 2013, though they did, of course, finish ahead of the Buccaneers in last season’s DStv Premiership standings. The Draw  FC Professionals  v Mathaithai FC Royal AM v Cape Town City Venda Football Academy v African All Stars Maritzburg United v SuperSport United University of Pretoria v Chippa United Platinum City Rovers v Sekhukhune United Stellenbosch FC v Baroka FC Swallows FC v TS Sporting FC Tshakhuma FC v Golden Arrows Kaizer Chiefs v TS Galaxy FC Sinenkani FC v FD Stars Richards Bay FC v Mamelodi Sundowns Marumo Gallants v Santos FC Orlando Pirates v AmaZulu Uthongathi FC v Summerfield Dynamos Black Eagles Fc  v Sivutsa FC