The Lions are set to put a heavy focus on the basics in the lead-up to their United Rugby Championship encounter with the Bulls at Ellis Park on Saturday. The home side came up just short in an entertaining loss against the Sharks this past weekend and they are expecting a tough set-piece battle, with territory playing a big part against the Bulls. “In South African derbies there will always be a set-piece and territory contest, so I think our decision-making around those facets can improve a bit,” admitted Lions coach Ivan van Rooyen. “At set-piece we know that if the Bulls feel that the knife is in they can get creative and surprise you in the way that they play, so we have done a fair bit of homework on them and we will also look at their game against the Stormers this weekend. “Highveld derbies are always physical – it’s always a good quality game – so it is important for us to have a good week of preparation for the Bulls and fix it on Saturday.” ALSO READ: Six talking points: What we learned after the weekend’s URC action Since the start of the URC, the Lions have stepped up their defensive performances impressively, even in their most recent match against the Sharks where they let in six tries. Their focus has now switched to their attack, however, where they showed their improvement by running in nine tries in their last two games against the Stormers and Sharks, although there is still room for improvement. “I think defence was probably our biggest work-on at the beginning of the season and I feel we made a massive step up,” said Lions captain Burger Odendaal. “Now the big thing is just controlling our attack and not giving easy possession to the opposition, and when we are actually having a go, to just keep hold of the ball. ALSO READ: Lions must fix ‘minor errors’ to hit their straps – Odendaal “I think with our attack we are putting teams under a lot of pressure, but we are giving them a way out with small errors. We have a chance to go and score but the opposition then gets the ball,” the skipper added. “So I think a big focus for us is just focusing on the basics and keeping the ball when we are on attack in the right part of the field.” The Lions’ latest defeat saw them slip down the URC table below the Sharks and Stormers, and they will be desperate for a win over the Bulls to try move back up the standings. The Bulls, however, have won just once in six games and will be even more desperate for a positive result, so they will come out all guns blazing.