2022 brought with it the revival of a reality television fan-favourite in the form of Big Brother Mzansi (BBMzansi) and the show seems to be a smash hit on social media.The show began trending from the second the premiere episode aired on Sunday evening and it continued trending well into Monday.  The show’s new host, Lawrence Maleka, also seems to be part of the reason fans are so enamoured with the show. Maleka was recently unveiled as the show’s host, taking over from Lungile Radu.  Big Brother Mzansi is the modern version of Big Brother South Africa, which first aired in South Africa in 2001. The live shows back then were hosted by TV legends Mark Pilgrim, Gerry Rantseli (now Gerry Elsdon) and Zuraida Jardine.After 13 years, the show rebranded as Big Brother Mzansi, with Radu in the driver’s seat as the show’s host.Maleka is the new face billed to usher in a new era of Big Brother, which unveiled an interesting set of housemates on Sunday evening.  Gugu Refiloe Bonga, aka Terry Treasure, is a 26-year-old from Johannesburg. Terry says she is honest almost to her own detriment. The OnlyFans adult content creator says she has a very big personality and stands for acceptance and non-judgment. She doesn’t like fake people and considers herself to be very open.  Adindu Asuzu, aka Zino, is a 21-year-old from Johannesburg who is self-confessed mommy’s boy. This season’s youngest housemate describes himself as both bubbly and mellow. He reckons he won’t start drama – but will be the one to end it. He says his Nigerian side won’t let people take advantage of him.  Keamogetswe Motlhale, aka QV, is a 23-year-old from Mahikeng. Self-described as easy-going, Keamogetswe is a sharp-shooter and straight talker. She says she has no interest in keeping her annoyance to herself when someone gets on her wrong side. She describes herself as a tomboy.  Libo Njomba, aka Libo, is a 32-year-old from Johannesburg. Born in Uitenhage, Libo says he is an avid lover of life who enjoys the outdoors. He says people are his weakness and, as a result, he tends to befriend “strange characters” – but also considers himself a loner.  Gashwan Brandon Mthombeni, aka Gash1, is a 28-year-old from Pretoria. Having overcome a troubled past, Gashwan describes himself as a deep thinker with varied interests and talents. He’s deeply spiritual and enjoys giving people advice and motivation.  Luthando Mthembu, aka B.U, is a 31-year-old from Johannesburg. The aspiring musician says one of the highlights of his life was quitting his high-flying corporate job to follow his artistic dreams. A vegan, he is focused on centering himself.  Mvelo Ntuli, aka Mvelo, is a 28-year-old from Johannesburg. Describing himself as loud and lovable, Mvelo is a lover of people and passionate about education. Bubbly and candid, he hides a more complex side behind his infectious humour. Naledi Mogadime, aka Nale, is a 24-year-old from Pretoria. A self-described “fine gyal, not a sad gyal”, the model is as much a firecracker as she is calm and zen. She considers her ability to understand and analyse people her strength. Naledi predicts that she might not be everyone’s cup of tea in the beginning of her time at the Big Brother Mzansi house. Michelle Dimpho Mvundla, aka Mphowabadimo, is a 27-year-old from Daveyton. The sangoma describes herself as outgoing and kind, but says she has “zero tolerance for nonsense”. She is also a doting mom who considers herself to be a nurturer who loves cheering people up when they’re not feeling their best.  Norman Nhlapo is a 24-year-old from Johannesburg. The daycare worker says he has an adaptable personality and is a sporty person. Despite a tough upbringing, he says his life has been a “bundle of blessings”. He runs a non-profit organisation and daycare with his mother.  Rethabile Potsane, aka Dinkybliss, is a 29-year-old from Johannesburg. Rethabile describes herself as “loud and proud” and says she can transform people’s moods and lift spirits when she is around. More of a boys’ girl than a girls’ girl, she enjoys socialising and loves fashion.  Thando Mcopela, aka Acacia, is a 30-year-old Soweto resident who is family orientated and describes herself as a free spirit and a risk-taker. She also says she is a foodie who loves community and togetherness. She considers herself relatable and is as comfortable ekasi as she is in upmarket suburbs.  Tulani Madala, aka Tulz, is a 28-year-old radio DJ from Johannesburg. The velvet-voiced straight-shooter says he has a softness beneath his tough exterior. He also says he is currently single because he was “badly behaved” in the heyday of his career.  Thato Mokoena is a 28-year-old from the Vaal who says she is not one to limit herself. Thato is an accountant and TikToker who describes herself as a “world within worlds”. Bubbly and energetic, she’s bluntly honest and is comfortable with her transparent nature.  Themba Karabo Mabaso is a 30-year-old heavily-inked tattoo artist from Johannesburg. He describes himself as “simple”, “basic” and “normal”, and says despite his attention-grabbing looks, he doesn’t actively seek the spotlight. And yet he is a housemate on Big Brother Mzansi… Thobeka Mtshali, aka Venus, is a 25-year-old from Richards Bay. In her own words, when it comes to her “you just never know what you’re gonna get”. She says she embodies creativity as she writes music, makes beats and plays the piano. She considers herself to be a layered person.   Ukho Samela, aka Sis Tamara, is a 25-year-old from Johannesburg. The multifaceted and bubbly Ukho goes by the pronouns he/ him/ she/ her/ they/ them. Known as “Sis Tamara”, they describe themselves as “a gender non-conforming experience”. They are also passionate about trans and queer representation.  Yolanda Glover, aka Yoli, is a 30-year-old from Durban who says she is outgoing and effervescent and describes herself as “Berocca without the medicine”. She loves being around people and says they are drawn to her infectious energy. She can sometimes be too honest and upfront and says she’s an open book.  Big Brother Mzansi season 3 is broadcast live 24/7 on DStv Channel 198.  There is also a daily highlight show on Mzansi Magic (DStv channel 161), Tuesdays to Fridays, starting on 25 January 2022 at 10:30pm.  Sunday eviction shows begin on 30 January at 6pm and will be broadcast on Mzansi Magic. This season will also see the return of fan favourite segments such as Shower Hour at 10pm on Mondays to Thursdays on Mzansi Magic, Saturday night parties with Channel O (DStv channel 320) and Friday night games.