TS Galaxy coach Sead Ramovic says he has had to work on getting his team to be tactically aware since his arrival at the DStv Premiership side in October. READ ALSO: Sundowns banking on new recruits to help them claim second star Ramovic replaced Owen Da Gama at the Rockets and since then the team has shown some signs of improvements in their structural set-up and now it is all about getting the tactics right. “I can only say that if a player does not want to adapt – I am talking about my team – then they will not have a place here,” said Ramovic when asked about his players’ tactical awareness and ability to adapt  to new ways of doing things.  “So here, the players we have are those who are willing to improve, willing to get better. And since October I can tell you that a lot of players have improved.  “We have seen it in games before and in friendly games recently but the first real test is coming on Saturday,” said Ramovic.   The big test Ramovic is talking about is their hugely anticipated Nedbank Cup Last 32 fixture against Kaizer Chiefs at FNB Stadium on Saturday evening.  “It’s a nice game and we are all glad about it. It will be a really difficult game because Chiefs, like we all know, are the most successful team in South Africa having won 93 trophies and we are the underdogs.  “But we carry a big responsibility to defend our club’s honour, so we have to be on top form and try to win every game.”  The building process continues for Ramovic no matter what Saturday’s outcome is and he says it is coming along alright.  “Building a team takes time. For example, if you went to the gym now and went home, would you see a difference? I don’t think so. If you go for a month, there will not be much difference. But if you go for a year without missing a day then you can start seeing the difference.  “It is the same with the team. We have been working on it for three months now and we have started seeing some improvements but we are still to improve even more because the league is really tough.”