It’s been a while since we’ve been able to let loose a little and attend local food and wine festivals, just as it’s been a while since artists have been able to perform live on stage.  That’s why this year’s Proe’toria festival is one not to be missed. Especially when you look at the line-up they are promising festival goers… Due to be hosted at the 5-star Monte de Dios, this feast for the senses might be exactly what you need to get back into (post-Covid) reality.  It’s a festival for the whole family, boasting some of the best South African music, food, wine and even kiddies’ entertainment.  Whitley Neill Handcrafted Gin is the main sponsor of the event, so you’ll definitely be sorted when it comes to libation too. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. On 5 and 6 March, artists like Karen Zoid, Jo Black, Die Heuwels Fantasties, Refentse, Janie Bay, Early B, Riana Nel, Martin Bester, Ampie, Jemma Catherine and Dagbreek will entertain the crowds.  There will also be food demonstrations, and you will get to browse through various craft offerings at the event. READ: Karen Zoid launches her own wine Says Pierre Greeff from Die Heuwels Fantasties: “We were looking forward to festivals taking place again and cannot wait to get on Proe’toria’s stage.  Riana Nel says: “Proe’toria has something for everyone and I look forward to be a part of it.”   The Proe’toria Festival will boast more than 40 outdoor food, wine, art and craft beer stalls, and although these exhibitors and suppliers might be from across the country, the festival aims to give you a proper taste of Pretoria. For artists like Janie Bay, being able to perform on stage again, is a wonderful prospect.  She is originally from Cape Town, but has recently moved to Pretoria and looks forward to perform alongside rap artist, Early B with their songs ‘My lief’ and ‘Die heelal.’ Jemma Catherine – a newcomer to the music industry – will also be showcasing her talent on stage at the Proe’toria Festival. She has shared the stage with celebrity singers like Francois van Coke and Ruhan du Toit before and her first single, titled ‘Alles gee’ is due to be released soon. The festival is to be presented by Jacaranda FM’s Thambiso Khambule, who will be the host for the event and who will be handing out numerous prizes to lucky festival goers. Mont de Dios and the EPH Group’s owner, Leon Pheiffer says: “We have been waiting for two years to present Proe’toria again and are now working very hard to give people an incredible experience. Together with the artists, we are grateful to generate income for them again.” Festival times are from 10AM to 7PM and gates close at 9PM on the Saturday and 6PM on the Sunday.  Tickets to the Proe’toria Festival are available on tixsa, with VIP tickets available until 2 March. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.