Cape Town Stadium is expected to be packed to capacity when South Africa hosts the Rugby World Cup Sevens tournament later this year. Up to 55,000 fans could return to the three-day event in September, according to SA Rugby – the first indication that big crowds in big stadiums are set to return in South Africa. For the better part of the last two years fans have been barred inside stadiums and sporting venues because of coronavirus. “The global vaccine roll-out has allowed the return of capacity crowds around the world and we’re expecting that experience to return to South Africa by the time of the Rugby World Cup,” said Jurie Roux, CEO of SA Rugby on Monday. “The opportunity of seeing the best rugby teams on the planet vying for the title of world champions hasn’t been experienced in South Africa since 1995 which will make this a very special occasion. “World Cups are unlike any other rugby tournament; for its duration the eyes of the rugby world will be on South Africa, as all roads lead to Cape Town.” The last time big crowds watched rugby in South Africa was in early 2020 in Super Rugby, just before Covid-19 forced the world and sport into lockdown and isolation. Last year’s tour to South Africa by the British and Irish Lions happened behind closed doors, with no fans allowed inside the venues. Tickets for the Rugby World Cup Sevens tournament in September will go on sale in two weeks’ time, on Monday 28 February.  Ticket sales will go live at 9am SA time at www.rwcsevens.com. Sevens teams previously unseen at the Cape Town event – such as Colombia (women) and Hong Kong and Korea (men) – have already qualified to join five pre-qualified women’s teams and eight pre-qualified men’s teams, which include both the Springbok men’s and women’s teams. The event will be the first return of Sevens to Cape Town in what will be close to three years. The 2020 and 2021 Cape Town Sevens events both fell victim to the impact of the pandemic meaning the Rugby World Cup Sevens will be the first chance for fans to enjoy the unique vibe. Tickets will cost between R150 and R1,750 with most tickets (72%) priced between R250 (for category D on Day One) to R1,350 (Category B on Day Three). Discounted family and scholar tickets and packages as well as a ‘Party Stand’ package are also available. “It has been a long, dark winter for the Sevens in South Africa, but this marks our bursting back into the light,” said Roux. “Health and safety of athletes and fans will be of the highest priority, and the current expectation is that all attendees will need to be vaccinated to gain entry. That requirement may be dropped in due course at which point the requirement will be removed.  “We are envious of sports events around the world, which we have seen the return to full capacity stadia and are very much looking forward to enjoying that experience in Cape Town once again.” Details of event hospitality, as well as Tour and Travel packages, will be announced in due course. Supporters wishing to receive updated information directly to their inbox can sign up for the Rugby World Cup Sevens Newsletter at www.rwcsevens.com/signup