Exciting young Lions flyhalf Jordan Hendrikse is back and stronger than ever, after recovering from his first major injury following his fracturing his ankle on URC duty last year. Hendrikse is a welcomed boost to a struggling Lions team that is on a four match losing streak after going down in all of their local URC derbies over the past four weeks. He made his comeback last weekend, coming on as a substitute against the Stormers, and he is ready to force his way back into the starting line up going forward. “I was definitely buzzing, it felt like my first senior starting game which was against the Stormers as well. So I was very excited, but it was unfortunate about the result and the limited time I got to play, but that’s protocol,” said Hendrikse about his return last weekend. “So it wasn’t the perfect game coming back but I am just grateful to be back from injury. I am one hundred percent, no complications or anything, I am back to full fitness.” ALSO READ: Will Tshituka be able to help Lions record first Currie Cup win? For the 20-year-old flyhalf it was a massive blow after he enjoyed a super 2021, where he had made himself the Lions starting number 10 and had played for the Baby Boks, before he was stretchered off in the team’s second match of their URC campaign in Wales. This started the toughest journey in his sporting career. “It is the toughest journey I have had in my sporting career so far as it was my first operation and first major injury,” explained Hendrikse. “Also having it happen overseas and having my first tour cut short was a big blow. I was enjoying testing myself against some of the best players from around the world, so it was unfortunate to have that ended by injury. “It was one of the toughest challenges I have faced mentally. I had to take myself away from the game a bit and I asked myself the questions: would I come back the same player, would my foot be fine and would I still have the talent I had. “So that tested me mentally and those fears were tough to deal with, but everything worked out in the end. The operation was successful and the physio went well so I am happy it has all worked out.” ALSO READ: Confirmed: Eben Etzebeth to join Sharks on long-term deal Bizarrely Jordan’s older brother Jaden was also sidelined by a broken ankle while on Springbok duty in the Rugby Championship a few months before, so had gone through a similar process to what Jordan ended up going through. “It was very strange and really unfortunate from our parents’ perspective because it was very tough for them to have both of us with serious injuries at the same time,” admitted Hendrikse. “He (Jaden) definitely assisted me, as he had gone through a similar process to me just before, so he kept me calm and helped me with some of my fears and told me that everything would work out. “My family as a whole were amazing and the one positive from all of this was being able to spend some time with all of them, which is usually so limited when we are with our teams.” Now finally getting back into full action Hendrikse is excited for the challenges that the URC is set to throw up over the rest of the season and is hoping to make a big impact for the Lions. He is particularly looking forward to their upcoming match against Leinster in Ireland next weekend and is champing at the bit to get back on the field. “The URC has a different feel to it. I would have loved to play Super Rugby but the URC is a fantastic competition. It is a different type of game playing up north and is a different style from what teams in the south play,” said Hendrikse. “So I am excited to be testing myself against the best players in the north and when you want to become the best in your position you have to play against the best, so I am really looking forward to facing overseas opposition again. “When I was injured the one game that I was most looking forward to was against Leinster. It’s going to be a big challenge playing them on their home field with a packed stadium, but it is a game I have been very excited for.”