Former Idols SA judge and media personality Unathi Nkayi will be joining community radio station STAR91.9FM from 1 March 2022 to continue her radio career. In a statement on Tuesday morning, it was announced that Nkayi will be joining Justin Toerien on the “All Star Drive” 15:00 to 18:00 on weekdays. Unathi announced her move to a new radio station earlier this month, but she didn’t give details around which station exactly she would be joining. ALSO READ: Power FM, 947 or Metro? Which radio station will Unathi be joining? This cryptic announcement led to fans speculating that the former Kaya FM host would be joining competitors in the broadcasting spaces such as 947, Metro FM, Power FM and even Radio 2000. Caren du Preez, station manager of STAR 91.9FM, said that listeners will get to hear Unathi in a way they’ve never experienced before: “free, liberated, motivated, focused and unlimited.” Toerien added that he is excited about this new chapter and definitely ready for the wild ride that is going to be the All Star Drive. “Expect loud, funny, passionate, bold – oh and did I mention loud? We are eager to make magic on the airwaves and guarantee a good laugh… all the way home.” Commenting on this new journey Unathi said that she is looking forward to a fresh new format of radio that she has never before attempted. “To be able to speak to my community, from my community and for my community – priceless! Being able to speak to a multicultural community is also something that I’m truly excited about because that’s the heart of radio – the heart of Joburg,” she said. Nkayi was unceremoniously fired from Kaya FM last year as the station cited a “breakdown of trust” after a dispute between Unathi and another Kaya FM host, Sizwe Dhlomo.  “Nkayi’s contract has ended prematurely due to certain conduct that rendered the relationship intolerable going forward. Kaya 959 can confirm that certain incidents had occurred, which resulted in the breakdown of the trust relationship between the two parties. “The business can further confirm that due process was followed and the decision was therefore made to part ways with Ms Nkayi,” said the radio station in a statement last year.  Additional reporting by Kaunda Selisho