After seven months of being out of the senior national women’s team Banyana Banyana, goalkeeper Andile Dlamini has fought her way back into the team following some explosive performances last year ahead of the squad’s international Friendly with Zambia on Saturday in Lusaka. READ ALSO: Fit-again Chiefs striker Nurkovic happy to be back The Banyana and Mamelodi Sundowns ladies FC shot-stopper suffered Covid-19 complications last year, which even saw her missing out on Downs ladies Caf Women’s Champions League qualifiers. But, her return to the Downs team came with an incredible performance that saw the club being crowned at the continental champions and Dlamini walked away with the goalkeeper of the tournament trophy. Dlamini is happy to be back with the national team and as one of the senior players in the squad, she says her job is to help the youngsters in the team. “It is honestly an honour to be back with the national team after a long time. I still say that in order to return to the national team, you have to work hard and the coaches have to be convinced with your performance and I believe I worked hard to return back to the national set up,” said Dlamini. “Leadership is very important, especially when you are working with the youth. The senior players are already aware of Banyana Banyana’s culture and when it comes to the youth, you have to sit down with them and pass down that culture while also assisting them to build confidence because in order for them to do their best, they need to be free and happy. As a leader it’s also important to understand that you are a link between the players and the coaches. So I am very honoured and grateful for this role and I will do my best to help everyone perform to the best of their ability.” The game against the Copper Queens of Zambia is part of Banyana’s preparations for their final round of the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against Algeria with the first leg set to be played on 18 February at home, while the return fixture will be played five days later at the North African country.