Madagascar’s ‘City of Thousand’, Antananarivo, has acquired three new hotels recently, with Radisson Hotel Group opening the Radisson Blu hotel, Antananarivo Waterfront, Radisson Hotel Antananarivo Waterfront, and Radisson Serviced Apartments Antananarivo City Center on the island.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Centrally located in a private area within the tree-lined waterfront, the Radisson Blu Hotel, Antananarivo Waterfront is close to the rather recent premier business district, which is surrounded by numerous shops, businesses and entertainment options.  The hotel’s rooms and suites are filled with natural light and overlook the captivating Madagascan city and the waterfront.  Its The Larder restaurant will take you on a culinary journey, serving a variety of international and regional dishes influenced by local produce. Fire Lake Restaurant & Bar is the hotel’s rooftop restaurant, offering panoramic views of Tana (short for Antananarivo) and a menu focused on grilled meat.  The Lobby Coffee & Bar allows guests to unwind with a comforting hot drink, a refreshing cocktail or a light snack. The Radisson Hotel Antananarivo Waterfront boasts an authentic Madagascan experience with a 30-room boutique hotel which has been developed with Radisson’s signature Scandinavian aesthetic in mind.  The rooms and suites all feature natural materials like beautiful wooden details, combined with Madagascan-inspired architecture, while boasting picturesque lake and garden views. The hotel’s Tamboho Restaurant presents a menu of local and international dishes made with fresh, seasonal ingredients and guests can indulge in the cuisine while enjoying the sounds of weekly live Jazz performances in the indoor dining area. WATCH: Inside Joburg’s newest hotel Radisson Red Rosebank Radisson Serviced Apartments Antananarivo City Center has 56 studios and apartments that offer views of the surrounding hills and provides a homely feel for travellers visiting for business, leisure or extended stays.  Visitors can indulge in cuisine from SOHO Restaurant, which offers French and Asian fusion flavours in a contemporary setting. There is also a SOHO Rooftop Lounge on the 5th floor, boasting the perfect setting for a morning coffee, afternoon tea of a refreshing cocktail.  And, as if that’s not enough, the SOHO Rooftop Terrace brings visitors the ideal space for private events or celebrations with spectacular views of the city. Antananarivo is the capital of Madagascar has been dubbed the ‘City of Thousand’ because of the thousand soldiers appointed in the 17th century by King Andrianjaka to protect the palace locally known as Rova, located on the highest hill of the city.  The city’s palaces (like the Rova) date back to the 19th century and the nearby Andafiavaratra Palace, Museums, colonial architecture and bustling markets make for a charming historical city experience. What to do in Antananaviro