What began as disbelief on Thursday morning when news of Kuli Roberts’ death broke has quickly turned into sorrow about the thought of yet another life cut too short.  Kuli touched countless lives and built several friendships over a career that spanned decades.  She started her career as a fashion, beauty and tabloid journalist before becoming one of the country’s most unforgettable columnists. She went on to work as an editor, television presenter and actress throughout her decades-long career. Over the years, she has worked at publications like Fair Lady, Drum, You Magazine, Pace and the tabloid Sunday World.Kuli Roberts has hosted shows such as ‘What Not to Wear’, ‘Real Goboza’, ‘Trending SA’ and her own show ‘Headline!’ which is currently available on Showmax. She also worked in radio, with her most notable appointment to date having been at Kaya FM where she worked with the likes of the late Bob Mabena. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Friends, family and fans of the late Kuli Roberts have shared their fondest memories of the icon in the wake of her death in an effort to honour the full life she lived.  People like Mel Bala, Bonnie Mbuli, Dr Musa Mthombeni and publicist Melanie Ramjee have all taken to social media with their thoughts and feelings after losing their beloved friend so suddenly.  Kuli Roberts died on Wednesday evening at the age of 49. The Citizen was made aware of her passing early on Thursday morning.  Later that day, her family confirmed the news of her passing in a statement. “It is with profound regret and sadness that we confirm the untimely passing of our dear daughter, mother, grandmother, sister and aunt Nomakula ‘Kuli’ Roberts.” She leaves behind two children, a grandchild, her parents and three siblings.“The Roberts and Mboya families are deeply thankful for all the countless personal messages of love and support received thus far. These are appreciated. The details of the memorial and funeral will be confirmed in due course.”