Regular fullbacks Warrick Gelant and Damian Willemse have been picked to play in the same backline for the first time in the United Rugby Championship, with Gelant to start in the No 15 jersey and Willemse at inside centre for the match against the Lions in Joburg on Saturday. There are three changes in all to the team that beat thee Sharks last weekend. The Stormers are looking to stretch their unbeaten start to 2022 to four games in Joburg. The forward pack that did duty in the 20-10 victory against the Sharks will start again, with lock David Meihuizen coming onto the replacements bench. Sergeal Petersen starts on the right wing, while Willemse is at inside centre and Paul de Wet at scrumhalf, with Angelo Davids, Dan du Plessis and Herschel Jantjies all set to make an impact from among the replacements this week. “As we have said, we had a plan for Damian in these four games. He started at fullback for the first two and then came on at 12 last week, so now we are ready to start him at 12,” said coach John Dobson. “Dan du Plessis was outstanding last week, but he has started three games in a row and to have him coming off the bench along with the likes of Herschel Jantjies and Angelo Davids will give us huge impact in the second half, which is so crucial up there.”   Dobson added that his team has focused on lifting their standards for what will be a tough encounter in Johannesburg. “Playing mid-afternoon in February up in Joburg we know that we will have to be switched-on and accurate for 80 minutes. “We want to build on what we have done in the last few weeks and will be giving it everything to earn what would be an incredibly valuable win on the road. “It is great to have some continuity in the forward pack and the rotations in the backline will hopefully ensure that we are able to apply some pressure for the full 80 minutes.” Stormers: Warrick Gelant, Sergeal Petersen, Ruhan Nel, Damian Willemse, Seabelo Senatla, Manie Libbok, Paul de Wet, Hacjivah Dayimani, Ernst van Rhyn, Deon Fourie, Marvin Orie, Adre Smith, Brok Harris, Scarra Ntubeni, Steven Kitshoff (capt). Bench: Andre-Hugo Venter, Leon Lyons, Sazi Sandi, David Meihuizen, Marcel Theunissen, Herschel Jantjies, Dan du Plessis, Angelo Davids.