It has been reported that DJ Fresh’s marriage to his wife Thabiso Sikwane of 20 years is ending.  The Sunday World reported that Thabiso and DJ Fresh, whose real name is Thato Sikwane, are no longer communicating as a married couple.  The publication cited a source close to Thabiso, who claimed that she had outgrown the former radio host.  “So when she told him that she wants out of their marriage, he tried to convince her to rekindle their love, but she refused and told him that she had made up her mind,” the source claimed.  According to the article, DJ Fresh does not intend to contest the divorce when he was informed that the marriage is over. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The friend alleged that the marriage started to show cracks when the couple starting sleeping in separate bedrooms. The couple were still living in the same house and hoped they would salvage their marriage. However this did not occur, and reportedly Fresh has agreed as part of the divorce settlement, to give the multimillion-rand home they live in, to Thabiso. READ NEXT: The Tinder Swindler: Audiences marvel at romantic scammer’s audacity Fresh and Thabiso have three children together, the Sunday World report further claimed that the former 947 radio host agreed that Thabiso has custody of their children. Which would allow him to visit his kids during school holidays and other holidays.  The Citizen has reached out to DJ Fresh and Thabiso Sikwane for comment and is still waiting for a response.  Fresh and Thabiso got married on 11 September 2002. They meet at YFM studios, where Fresh was the DJ and Thabsio a newsreader.  DJ Fresh has been embroiled in sexual harassment and rape allegations over the last two years. He was named in the “Me too” list which was reshared by controversial poet Ntsiki Mazwai. This ensued a legal between, Fresh and Mazwai. The DJ’s argument was that Mazwai republished the sexual assault allegations levelled against him, prompting him to call his lawyers to intervene. Penny Lebyane also ended up included in the case in a bizarre turn of events. In 2021, Fresh and his close friend Euphonik (Themba Nkosi) were accused by a woman known as Nampree who accused both DJ’s of rape.  Nampree alleged she was drugged and raped by the DJ’s in an incident that occurred over 10 years ago. The case gained much attention from activists and in the media.  In February 2021, the NPA dismissed the rape case due to “insufficient  evidence.”  READ NEXT: ‘Insufficient evidence’ – NPA on dismissal of DJ Fresh and Euphonik rape case Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele