Banyana Banyana are one step closer to the Caf Africa Women’s Cup of Nations after they edged Algeria 2-0 in the first leg of the last round of the qualifiers at the Orlando Stadium on Friday. READ ALSO: Ellis banking on home advantage for Banyana against Algeria Goals in each half by Hilda Magaia and Thembi Kgatlana respectively sealed the victory for the hosts, but the margin could have been much bigger had it not been for their poor display in front of goals. Banyana had a decent start into the match, with Magaia getting a chance just after 10 minutes, but the winger’s header didn’t trouble Algeria shot-stopper Yamina N’Gazi at her poles. The home side finally got the breakthrough, this time around, Magaia connected well with the ball to head it inside the back of the net in the 40th minute, thanks to a well taken corner-kick by Kholosa Biyana, as they went into the break in the drivers seat. The first five minutes into the second half saw Banyana with some glorious opportunities, Thembi Kgatlana beating the Algeria defenders with pace, only for her shot to be saved, while Biyana’s promising set-piece from outside the box was saved by N’gazi. Algeria, with seven players playing in France in the starting line-up like Sylia Koui and Ikram Adjabi, were struggling to break the Banyana defence, with the hosts looking quite comfortable at the back. But, in the last 15 minutes, a poor clearance by keeper Andile Dlamini saw the ball landing on Adjabi’s feet, but the striker’s shot was stopped by Bambanani Mbane, with Dlamini out of her poles. It was chance after chance for Banyana to double their lead, but they still couldn’t get their shots right, and when they did, N’gazi was well positioned. But in the later stages of the game, Gabriela Salgado’s cross from the left side was met by Kgatlana inside the box and the striker made no mistake and slotted the ball into the net to seal the victory. Banyana will be looking to finish the job and book their spot into the continental tournament by winning the second to be played in Algiers on the 23rd of February.