Price increases are never welcomed and this was exactly the case when news of the DStv price increase for 2022 was confirmed.  Although the DStv price increase is fairly nominal, audiences are unhappy about this citing the quality of the content currently available on the platform.  According to DStv, this is quite the contrary, however as the adjustments follow a period of increased value offerings from DStv in the form of local and international general entertainment and sports content, DStv Internet, and Rewards.From 1 April 2022, Premium subscribers will pay 1.21% or just R10 more per month while Compact Plus will go up by 1.86% or R10, Compact up by 4.89% or R20, Family up by 4.75% or R14 and DStv Access up by 4.35% or R5.  Pricing for Easyview, Showmax, Add Movies and BoxOffice will remain unchanged this year.  The pay-TV provider explained that they had considered the challenges facing South African consumers.  YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE: MultiChoice signs multi-year deal with Disney “[We have] once again absorbed as much of the increase of the cost of doing business as possible in order to implement minimal adjustments.” “We realise that customers remain under pressure two years into the Covid-19 pandemic. These adjustments will help us to ensure that South Africans continue to enjoy the best value, and unrivalled access to entertainment, anywhere, anytime, and at the most affordable price,” added Nyiko Shiburi, MultiChoice South Africa CEO. In addition to the DStv Now streaming platform, DStv Premium subscribers get access to Showmax as a value-added service at no additional charge (100% discount). DStv Compact, Compact Plus, Family and Access subscribers get Showmax at a 50% discount.This has done little to cool the tempers of disgruntled viewers who feel as though paying for internet access and paying the subscription fee to a different streaming service provides a better option when it comes to new and exciting viewing. Streaming platforms such as Netflix, Amazon Prime, Apple TV and the soon-to-be-launched Disney+.  For years, DStv has been subject to the same criticism as the SABC and e.tv who are said to repeat their original content too often, air repeats of extremely old shows and make new shows available on their platforms years after they initially became available in the United States.  This criticism persists despite new shows and movies being added to each platform in recent years.  ALSO READ: Moja Love to launch inspiring Entrepreneurship show