TS Galaxy defender Ebrahim Seedat knows what it will take for them to upset Kaizer Chiefs and knock them out of the Nedbank Cup when the two sides meet on Saturday. ALSO READ: Recommitted Frosler yearns for silverware with Kaizer Chiefs “Teamwork and hard work are the only things that will help us win on Saturday,” said Seedat when asked what it could take for galaxy to get the result at FNB Stadium.  The two sides already have a strong rivalry emanating from the Rockets’ win in the final of the same competition that embarrassed Amakhosi in 2019. Since then the games between the two sides are one of those the fans always look forward to. Neither side has managed to dominate the fixture though.   “We have prepared well so far. Kaizer Chiefs are a big team but at the end of the day it is XI v XI,” says a confident Seedat.  While with his previous club Cape Town City, Seedat won the Telkom Knockout and the MTN8 and Ke Yona is the one that has eluded him. And with the DStv Premiership a hard throw for now, he can however dream of wearing the Nedbank Cup gold medal.   “It would be good (to win the Nedbank Cup), not just for me but for the whole of TS Galaxy. I guess it is up to us. If we are willing and we give everything on Saturday, we stand a good chance.”  Above the R7-million winners prize money, another of the perks of winning Ke Yona is a chance to represent South Africa in the Caf Confederation Cup the following year. “If we do win this we will at least play in the Caf competitions next year – that’s a bonus for me, for the team. I think it is important to keep our heads level and work hard.  “When you play against a team like Chiefs, no one needs to be motivated because every player wants to show what they are capable of. So, everyone cannot wait for this one.”  And with Sead Ramovic having joined the Rockets when the season had already started, replacing Owen Da Gama after a false start to the season, Seedat believes the lengthy festive break has helped them.   “The coaches didn’t get time with us when they first came here. At least this time they have had some time to show us their way of playing  and we are improving everyday. Hopefully it will show on Saturday.”