Last night’s episode of Boer Soek ’n Vrou included the first farm visits where the farmers’ three chosen women could visit them on the farm, getting to know them better in a space where they feel most at home. Tyson – the farmer who received the most letters this season – was aptly prepared for the visit, with cute gift boxes with slippers, chocolates and journals for each of the women he invited to visit. He even had a Q&A ready and the girl who knew him the best (or who was lucky to guess correctly with most questions), got the double bed. Tyson was very excited to get to know the girls he invited to the farm better, and to see their character come through. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. During dinner one evening, Tyson mentioned that he doesn’t want to be alone forever and later he also said that he is looking for a woman who will love him and the things he loves. He made the women drive a tractor on the first day and was impressed with what he saw in Annelle (23), Chantelle (26) and Alri (24). Petré is a man who likes to plan everything to the tee, but he also knew that with three women in the house, things might not always go according to plan. He spoiled the girls who came to visit with a different scent allocated to different rooms and each bed had a gift basket filled with special gifts relating to those specific scents. He used fragrance sticks to let the women choose their favourite scent, and ultimately their favourite room. Eloise (23), Lourize (24) and Bu-Anda (25) were full of chuckles on their way to the farm. READ: ‘Boer Soek ’n Vrou’ – Who’s visiting the farmers on the farm? Petré soon had the women planting with the tractor – something that showed him a bit of their personalities and the way they handle situations that aren’t necessarily in their comfort zones. Nelis gave his top three women some cute gumboots as a gift on arrival. “It is a cattle farm, after all,” he explained. Esmerélda (28), Steffeni (31) and Margot (30) were all very excited about the visit and Nelis had them pick their room keys from a hat. They also soon got to drive the tractor, helping to lift fertiliser from a wagon in the field. Margot was the first to go and says that it was a good icebreaker. Once again, the girls bowled Nelis over and even though he thought he might know in which direction things were going after the first day, he admitted that he’d have to sleep on it. Willem has a very dry sense of humour and when presenter Marciel Hopkins arrived to make sure that he is ready for a week filled with female energy in his home, he was excited to show her the different rooms he prepared for his chosen three. “I worked hard,” he told her, showing her the gifts on the beds and the bedrooms with natural farm light streaming in from the windows. Chantel, Nicky and Sonja couldn’t believe how cold it was in Philippolis and were all a little nervous, but also excited about the visit. Each woman got a hat upon arrival, which had a room number inside. Johan is the youngest farmer from the five. He was very excited to see the three women he chose explore the farm. The gifts he got for them included a llama soft toy, vellies, socks and slippers. Liandi, Arina and Chanzé were all very excited to see Johan in his own habitat and he shyly admitted that having three women visit the farm at once was a good problem to have. The farm visits are bittersweet though as the first evening is also the last evening that the farmers and all three their chosen women will spend together. The next episode will have the farmers take on the selection process again, requiring them to vote out one of the three girls. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.