Johannesburg, 7th February 2022 – Mzansi’s best Shisa Nyama has been crowned by Hinds Spices, with the first Chesa Champion title going to Meat Meet in Soweto. The proudly South African spice brand known for making meals taste bigger and bolder, turned up the heat over summer as Shisa Nyama’s in Soweto competed for the title of Hinds Spices Chesa Champion. Hinds Spices and its agency partners selected ten Shisa Nyama’s to form part of the Hinds Spices Chesa Championship and encouraged consumers to vote for their favourite to stand a chance to win a share of R10 000 cash vouchers. “The aim of the campaign was to discover Mzansi’s best Shisha Nyama and give them an opportunity to showcase their flavours in partnership with Hinds Spices and claim the title of Hinds Spices Chesa Champion,” says Shevani Singh – Brand Manager for Hinds Spices, at RFG Foods. “Activated across ten outlets over the two-month summer period, with activations allowing consumers to come and taste the bold flavours of Hinds Spices used in authentic South African dishes,” she says. “Consumers could vote for their favourite Shisa Nyama via What’s App and then stand a chance to win their share of R10 000.” The Shisa Nyama crowned the Chesa Champion for 2021 is Meat Meet, a family run business, who walked away with a grand prize worth R50,000. “We are so happy and excited to be the first Hinds Spices Chesa Champion; we love the quality of the spices and what they have done for us here in Soweto,” says Khunou Nyakale – Owner of Meat Meet in DK Zone 3 Soweto. “My mother, Homi Nyakale started the business, and both my sister, Khothatso Mokhele and I try very hard to continue her legacy.” “As a brand we always aim to give our valuable consumers something extra to be excited about, while adding flavour to their lives, therefore this campaign was perfectly aligned to us giving our consumers and the community where they live more,” adds Singh. Maria Soares, head of marketing at RFG Foods, says that the brand was very excited to launch such a proudly South African campaign through a mealtime moment that’s beyond just about sharing great tasting food but is truly a celebration of life and coming together with those closest to you. “We are big on family moments and are delighted to have grown our Hinds Spices family through this Shisa Nyama campaign,” she says. For more info visit the Hinds Spice website: www.hindsspices.co.za