Food and the financial industry are rarely associated together unless you are considering how much you can spend during a lunch date near the end of the month.  Known for his appearances on successful shows such as Cheeky Palate, as a food contributor on Expresso on SABC3 and Celebrity Mystery Box, chef Lentswe Bhengu creatively makes dishes under interesting circumstances.  He has made scrumptious menus inspired by serious and in-depth issues on Phat Joe’s Cheeky Palate and his next task was for a financial series #WeStart2022Stronger for Metropolitan, hosted by Nomsa Buthelezi-Shezi.  Chef Lentswe told The Citizen the world of finance isn’t foreign to him. The star chef studied his BCom in finance and lived a corporate life in investment marketing.  READ NEXT: 5 romantic Valentine’s Day dinner spots He spent time at big corporates such as Alan Gray in Cape Town, and West Grow moving around retail, banking and then government investment on a larger scale. He admits his financial wellbeing was better after he left.  “I spent most of my time in corporate to help sort or help people’s finances, and honestly I didn’t take my finances that seriously.” He only started using the business acumen when he become a chef and as a student, gaining knowledge on how to charge for his services and food costing.  Chef Lentswe said he learned most of this in culinary school and, as a private chef, knowing how to calculate your value is important.  So how does a chef fit in the #WeStart2022 Stronger content series? The programme aims at equipping consumers with knowledge and tools to better manage their financial matters.  The three episodes will inform the audience on premium deductions, the claims process and sum assured amounts in a less intimidating manner to consumers.  Chef Lentswe designed menus out of these topics for the guests and his creative process was a simple one.  “What is the emotion behind the topic? What is the verb or thinking when I hear this topic? Debit order I think of a fancy version of tin fish. Month-end, I am scared because the budget is tight, likely tin fish and tomato left in the cupboard. These keywords evoke an emotional reaction.” He was breaking through these fears with food when it came to these money matters.  He further explains that other words such as investment – the money you put away over a long period of time, translated into food, would be a slow cooker dish or a dish that tastes better the next day, such as a curry.  For the debit orders episode, Chef Lentswe whipped up tongue with parsnip puree, mustard and a jus. For dessert, an airy chocolate mousse layered with a sponge cake, a berry compote on top finished with fancy sugar work.  The We Start 2022 Stronger series airs every week, and episodes are posted on Metropolitan social media accounts.