Miss South Africa 2021 Lalela Mswane will be representing her country once more on an international stage. The Miss South Africa organisation released a statement announcing that Mswane has been chosen to represent the country in the 13th edition of the Miss Supranational beauty competition which is set to be held in Poland in July.  “The Miss South Africa organisation is excited to announce that the reigning Miss South Africa, Lalela Mswane, will represent Mzansi at the 13th edition of Miss Supranational which is set to be held in Nowy Sacź, Poland, in July 2022,” read the statement. Mswane represented South Africa at the 70th Miss Universe beauty pageant, in December 2021, where she finished as second runner-up.  The organisation also took to social media to share the announcement but was met with anger and disappointment. South Africans feel that the organisation was favouring Mswane, and should have given one of the Miss South Africa 2021 runner-ups – Moratwe Masima and Zimi Mabunzi – a chance to represent the country on the international stage.  The organisation explained in the statement that it is not uncommon for a Miss South Africa titleholder to attend more that one international competition during their reign, especially with all the effects that the Covid-19 pandemic has had on beauty competitions.  “Covid has forced many events to be postponed and this has caused confusion around the different competitions and when they are set to be held. It is also not uncommon for the same representative to attend more than one international competition during their year of reign should the international pageant’s dates and timeline allow for it,” said the statement.  After this announcement, Moratwe changed her bio on her Instagram page where she removed “Miss SA runner-up”, and has unfollowed the Miss South Africa organisation. Drum roll please ????…. We are excited to announce Miss South Africa 2021, @Lalela_lali will represent Mzansi at the 13th edition of @MissSupranatl 2022 this July in Poland! . ????????Let’s support Lalela as she gets back on the international stage! #misssa2021 #misssupranational pic.twitter.com/94rhE9cKkO— Miss South Africa (@Official_MissSA) February 15, 2022 ALSO READ: Miss SA Lalela Mswane is the stuff legends are made of this has been the worst miss SA reign ever I’m sure, there’s been drama since since yoh hai— city girl. (@kutlwano_n) February 15, 2022 @Official_MissSA  organisation fooled us into the three sisterhood bull because they wanted to accomodate Natasha, now they see Lalela has the potential to win they dropping other girls. They don't care about the girls they just want more sponsors. Miss SA is abusive— 25 September (@Shushu_0925) February 16, 2022 I always Supported Lalela but at this rate I don't know anymore. We fought for her to persue her dreams, she should give other people chances too. This Is the right time to actually say No to this Miss SA opportunity. She got 2nd Runner Up at Miss Universe moss.— Zealot Titusson (@titusson_zealot) February 16, 2022 Why couldn't Lalela speak up for the other ladies. She's selfish. Wasn't miss Universe enough. Aiy.Miss SA | Miss supernatural— ????Fatu.M (@touch_43113) February 16, 2022 They are not Miss SA though, they fill in for her if she is not available to do her duties.So I dont get this drama You guys just hate Lalela nje Anyways all the best wena Queen— Jennifer Mqoqi ???? (@Jenniemqoqi) February 16, 2022 Miss SA is such a trash organisation no ways ???????? they just dropped Zimi and Moratwe like hot potatoes and decided that Lalela will represent the country at Miss Supranatural ????‍????— Ntsako (@Ntsako_15) February 15, 2022