Your diet can have a significant impact on various aspects of your health, including the risk of developing chronic diseases. Among these chronic diseases, is cancer – the Big C – and therefore keeping to a specific diet might be helpful when it comes to managing the progression of the disease. Omy Naidoo, the co-founder of NEWtricion Wellness Dieticians says: “The consumption of certain foods does not eliminate the risk of cancer. Maintaining a nutritious diet, on the other hand, can considerably lower the risks of developing it.” This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. According to South Africa’s national Cancer Registry, chronic disease is still one of the main causes of death in the country, with a 6 out of 10 survival rate. The 2020 World Health Organisation report also indicated that the chances of being diagnosed with cancer before the age of 75 are 20.7%. By including the following foods in your diet, you might be able to prevent yourself from becoming part of these statistics. ALSO READ: World Cancer Day: SA launches ‘world first’ screening test. Are you covered? Several citrus fruits have been proven to contain nutrients that help boost your immune system, including vitamin C. These fruits have various health benefits and including oranges, lemons and limes in your diet, might help in reducing your risk of being diagnosed with cancer. The consumption of healthy fats has also been linked to a number of health benefits, including a decreased risk of cancer development. Fatty fish contains important nutrients like vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids which help prevent chronic diseases like cancer. These vegetables include broccoli and cabbage for example and they come with vitamins that reduce your chances of developing cancer too. Increasing your weekly intake of cruciferous vegetables is one of the best ways to keep your body strong and cancer-free, since they slow down the growth of cancer cells. Bread and cereals made from wholegrains contain dietary fibre that may help in reducing the risk of any type of cancer. The recommended daily intake of bread and cereals adds up to about four servings per day, with at least half of that being wholegrain or wholemeal. Beans might also assist in increasing your fibre intake when it comes to your daily diet, which can ultimately also assist in lowering your chances of getting cancer. Although you can’t necessarily protect yourself from the Big C, you can make the conscious decision to choose foods that are healthy, that continuously boost your immune system and that helps reduce your risk of developing cancer.