The error ridden Lions were thumped 32-10 (halftime 10-3) by the Stormers in their United Rugby Championship clash at Ellis Park on Saturday afternoon, completing a remarkable turnaround of fortunes for the two teams. In early December it was the Lions who hammered the Stormers in Cape Town, leaving them as the highest placed SA team in the competition, however after four rounds of local derbies in recent weeks, the Lions have lost four out of four while the Stormers have gone unbeaten. In the match it was a mistake-ridden performance that allowed the Stormers to stroll to a comfortable bonus point win, with the Lions their own worst enemies having had more than enough chances to make a game of it. It was an even start to the match, with the Stormers getting the first opportunity with a penalty in the eighth minute, however they chose to set up a lineout in the Lions 22m instead of going for goal. Despite the lineout coming to nothing a penalty in the Lions 22m two minutes later let the Stormers get on the board as Manie Libbok knocked over the three pointer. The Lions then had a couple chances with lineouts in the Stormers 22m but couldn’t take advantage with the first overthrown and the second defended well by the visitors who turned the ball over. The home side however drew the scores level in the 21st minute after a breakdown penalty allowed flyhalf Tiaan Swanepoel to get the Lions on the board. A poor bit of defence from the Lions after a tryline drop out then saw the Stormers in for their first try as they attacked from the half way, with eighthman Hacjivah Dayimani getting the ball, stepping past a defender and handing off another before going over for a converted score under the posts. That made the score 10-3 which the Stormers kept into the half time break despite the Lions having another chance in the Stormers 22m only to be turned over. The second half then saw the Stormers power away in the first 15 minutes, starting with Libbok slotting a 43rd minute penalty. Four minutes later a brilliant 50/22 metre from Libbok gave the Stormers a lineout in the Lions 22m, with the ball going one way and then back the other to left wing Seabelo Senatla who jogged over in the corner untouched for an unconverted try. In the 54th minute the Lions then found themselves on attack deep in the Stormers 22m, only to knock the ball on and allow the visitors to counter attack at pace, ending with right wing Sergeal Petersen scoring and Libbok converting for a 25-3 lead. Another Lions mistake in the 75th minute then led to the Stormers bonus point try as they again lost the ball on attack, allowing the Stormers to counter into the Lions 22m where fullback Warrick Gelant put in a grubber and flank Deon Fourie dotted down for the seven pointer. The home side had the final say three minutes later when a good long range attack saw replacement scrumhalf Morne van den go over next to the uprights, but it was too little too late for them. Scorers Lions Try: Morne van den Berg; Conversion: Jordan Hendrikse; Penalty: Tiaan Swanepoel Stormers Tries: Hacjivah Dayimani, Seabelo Senatla, Sergeal Petersen, Deon Fourie; Conversions: Manie Libbok (3); Penalties: Manie Libbok (2)