Geordies Dream is expected to open his account for the season at the third attempt in the Virgin Bet Maiden Hurdle at Ayr today. A debut winner at Kelso last spring, Pauline Robson’s charge has since finished second under a penalty in a bumper at this venue and third on his hurdling bow at Newcastle. The form of his latest effort does not look too bad, with the winner Lupus Regem almost following up at Wetherby next time and the runner-up Stokes finishing second twice again since. With a step up to 4000m expected to suit – and champion jockey in waiting Brian Hughes retaining the ride – Geordies Dream has an excellent chance of getting back on the winning trail. For the full version of Tuesday’s edition of Racing Express, as found in The Citizen, click here. Green Vault can complete his hat-trick in the Virgin Bet Handicap Hurdle. Bought for £38,000 (R780,500) after winning a Punchestown bumper last March, the Shirocco gelding was placed on two of his first three starts over hurdles for Lucinda Russell. Connections clearly felt he was better than his opening mark of 104 when making his handicap debut at Ayr last month as he was a heavily backed favourite – and that apparent confidence was justified as Green Vault won with plenty to spare. The decision to turn him out just four days later at Bangor paid off and a 4kg rise in the weights might not be enough to prevent him from adding to his tally under Alan Doyle. Dan Skelton appears to have found Cousu Main a gilt-edged opportunity to double up at Lingfield. Second and third in two bumper outings, the six-year-old was still in with a chance of winning when falling at the final flight on his hurdling debut here in November. He bounced back with a 12-length defeat of subsequent winner Full Of Light at Uttoxeter the following month and should be capable of defying the mandatory penalty in the Visit a heraces.com/cheltenham Novices’ Hurdle. Venetia Williams has her string in tremendous form and can strike gold once more with Frenchy DuLarge in the At The Races App Ex-pert Tips Novices’ Limited Handicap Chase. While the son of Al Namix ran well in bumpers and over hurdles, he has already eclipsed those achievements since having his attentions turned to the larger obstacles this season. He only made it as far as the second fence on his chasing debut at Carlisle but has since won comfortably at Uttoxeter and Chepstow.  A 2kg rise for his latest triumph does not look insurmountable for a horse on a steep upward curve. Burrows Seeside can land a well-earned victory in the Betway Handicap at Newcastle. Phil Kirby’s five-year-old has been knocking on the door of late and was only denied by a short head on his latest start when Air-show hung on to get the narrow verdict at Southwell. It is hard to believe things have not gone his way since he struck over this 1200m in October 2020, but his latest effort suggests his turn must be close. – Press Association