Cape Town Tourism has recently surveyed users on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram to identify the top proposal hotspots in Cape Town. Cape Town and its surrounds is filled with landmarks conducive to romantic encounters that make it the ideal city to propose to the love of your life. Responses from the survey, as well as responses from users of The Perfect Proposal and wedding and proposal planners were recorded, with the most popular answers being: the V&A Waterfront and Table Mountain. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. According to the online dating app WeLoveDates.com, Cape Town was ranked the 21st most romantic city in the world and it came in as the second most romantic city on the continent, following Marrakech. According to Cape Town Tourism CEO, Enver Duminy, “it is hard to think of a better city to find the freedom to declare your undying love. Whether you are atop Table Mountain or on the beach, you won’t struggle to find the perfect venue to propose. Afterwards you can mark the occasion at any one of the city’s world class restaurants.” Apart from the V&A Waterfront and Table Mountain, there are a plethora of popular Capetonian spots where engagement rings have been pulled out of pockets. These include Hout Bay, the Cape Town International Airport, Kirstenbosch Gardens, Signal Hill, Franschhoek, Boulders, the Aquila Nature Reserve and the Strand. ALSO READ: Cape Town is a different country Majik Forest, Door de Kraal This pet-friendly park is one of the most perfect proposal hotspots, especially if you’d like your furry friends present for the special occasion. Located in the northern suburbs, the park boasts green grass, trees, a dam, ducks and even a mountain bike trail in the forest section. Lichtenstein Castle, Hout Bay This privately-owned castle in Hout Bay can only be visited by appointment and if you are looking for the perfect fairy tale setting, this is it. Woodstock’s streets If you are an adventurous, urban couple, Woodstock boasts the perfect setting amidst gorgeous, gritty surrounds. Its world-famous street art pose as the perfect backdrop for a proposal. Tintswalo Atlantic, Hout Bay They say a penguin gives its mate a pebble when courting. Why not pop your person a pebble on Tintswalo’s secluded stretch of beach, right below Chapman’s Peak Drive. Diaz Beach, Cape Point This hidden Cape Town coast offers unparalleled sea views ideal for a romantic beach proposal. It’s wild and whimsical and the perfect spot to hear your significant other sweetly say “I do”. Secret Rock, Bantry Bay At the top of Nettleton Drive, there is a secret rock that has become renowned for its qualities to lure couples to the spot for some special moments alone. Here, the big question has probably been asked numerous times. Cape Town creates romance in more than one way and although these spots are the favourite ones, they are definitely not the only proposal hotspots.