The latest episode of Real Housewives of Durban (RHODurban) is live on Showmax and viewers finally got a look at that highly anticipated black-tie dinner that requested that the cast members show up with their husbands in tow.  Londie also provided the ladies with another chance to gather when she hosted a “sip and see” event for her son Umi.  A sip and see is almost like a baby shower hosted only after the baby is born where guests sip on their beverage of choice while meeting the new baby.  What Londie didn’t tell her guests is that a sip and see also requires guests to shower the baby with gifts. In a past interview with The Citizen, Annie Mthembu promised that she would be bringing the drama this season on RHODurban and she meant it.She told Londie that Nonku Williams had commented on how she doesn’t look like her Instagram pictures, inferring that they were heavily edited.  Londie then confronted Nonku who stood by what she said, but decided that Annie was not the person to confide in anymore as she had made that comment to her in confidence. The drama between Nonku and her mother continued as Nonku continued to push her mom to come face to face with her ex-husband, Nonku’s father.  Their marriage ended badly in the last episode, and Nonku mentioned that her father had been physically abusive during their marriage.Their conversation also revealed that “The Queen” (as she is affectionately called by her daughter) was once an alcoholic and because of that, she was worried about how much she thinks Nonku is drinking lately.  She expressed concern for her health and implored Nonku to think about her children who may end up growing up without a parent if anything goes wrong. Because the black-tie event asked that the ladies come with their husbands (or partners), having a date was a concern for some of the “single” RHODurban cast members in this episode.  In her catch up session with Jojo, LaConco admitted that there was a man in her life, whom she called a “special friend”. “There’s definitely a special friend but you know when you don’t know what’s happening, where things are… So I don’t want to be associated with that.”  She was not bringing this special friend to the black-tie dinner, however, much to the disappointment of her fellow cast members who were dying to find out who she is dating.   Annie invited the ladies for a fun afternoon of paintball only to face off with Nonku in the parking lot after the event. Annie ended up declaring that she did not like Nonku but knew that she had to deal with her for the sake of the show and them having so many mutual friends. She said that she felt this way about her because she was so “up and down” and inconsistent but didn’t clarify what she meant by this.  The pair agreed that they clash because they do not understand each other and have different personality types and that’s where that conversation ended, on a bizarrely amicable note. During the entire episode, the ladies had no idea who was hosting the black-tie event they were invited to. Jojo was deeply disappointed by LaConco’s date, presumably because it wasn’t someone high profile.  Another disappointment came with the fact that Sorisha didn’t bring her husband, Viv Reddy, to the dinner.  What didn’t disappoint, however, was the big reveal of who the evening’s host was.  ‘uThando Nesthembu’ star Thobile Mseleku finally met the rest of the ladies whom she had invited to her black-tie dinner.  She kept her guests waiting incredibly long, much to their annoyance, and judging by LaConco’s diary session, it was not worth the wait. RHODurban episode 3 is now streaming on Showmax.