When Wayde Lekay was signed by TS Galaxy at the start of last season, he had all the makings of a top striker. He had the right attitude, height and had scored a handful of goals at GladAfrica Championship side Steenberg United.  ALSO READ: Royal AM snap up former Sundowns defender He is however yet to live up to his billing. A good thing about him though is that he is honest with himself, and seems to be his own worst critic. “For me it is always about improving each and every day,” he tells Phakaaathi in an exclusive interview. “When I came into this league – you see, I am a confident person – I thought it would be easy coming from the lower ranks. But I soon realised what this league was about.  “It is not about being able to shoot or being able to run faster because you come up against defenders and midfielders who are clever.  “So, there is some sort of intelligence that also needs to take place in your game. In my first season I lacked a lot of that. But with the players that surround you, you learn. The most important thing is that you learn so you can improve everyday,” he adds.  The 24-year-old says when he found the going tough, he didn’t give up but took a chance to learn from the senior players around him.  “My main thing now is to improve, the coaches have helped me a lot. I believe I have the potential to flourish. It is all about God’s timing. I believe I can do better. “It is my second season now and I believe I have learnt a lot from the first one. You can’t settle for where you are, you have to want more – that’s where I am now. I want more.” His aim this season is to score more goals and he has set out to start netting them when Galaxy meet Kaizer Chiefs in a Nedbank Cup Last 32 fixture at FNB Stadium on Saturday evening.  “You always want to create your own history. I cannot ride on the history of TS Galaxy beating Kaizer Chiefs in the final (in 2019) because I was not there. But for me to score in this upcoming game would mean I am creating my own history in my era.  “Like our chairman has said before, it is going to always be a rivalry when we play Chiefs… It is a game everyone wants to see. So, for me to score in this game would be an amazing feeling but more importantly it is for us to win. “If we can go out there and beat a giant who are Kaizer Chiefs it would show that we deserve to be in this league, in this tournament.”