The nerves, but also excitement were still running high at Lanserac Wine Estate in the third episode of this season’s Boer Soek ’n Vrou as more farmers met with the top ten women they chose from the letters they received during the highly anticipated flash appointments.  The farmers all then also picked three women for the next step: Visiting the farm, where they feel most at ease. The episode kicked off with farmer Nelis, looking shabby in his pink cardigan, which he claims is specially for television.  During the flash appointments, Suné matched his cardigan with her pink Covid-19 mask. He asked Anna-Marie: “So you discussed me?” and she casually commented: “Well, of course. We are here for you. We’re not going to talk about bonfires.”  The redhead even got to squeeze in some flirting.  Nelis joked around with Esmerélda, referring to her long list of a letter and the fact that she brushes her teeth in the shower, and then he told Simoné about a language mishap involving the hair of a Klipspringer.  Madelaine, who is from Namibia, shared her favourite Namibian spots with him, while Margot flew in from Athens to meet Nelis.  Elke wanted to know how Nelis juggles two jobs and he explained that, that was why he entered Boer Soek ’n Vrou – “Because I work all the time.”  Steffeni says “life is too short to do something that you don’t like,” and Emily was straight from the start, confirming that Nelis chose ten wonderful women.  “You have a rather tough choice to make,” she said, to which he responded laughing: “And you’re making it even more difficult now.”  He also met with Aureal, who was clearly sad that their five-minute flash appointment had gone by so fast. Nelis – who dubs himself as a people watcher – told presenter Marciel Hopkins the women bowled him over.  His top five, whom he chose to spend a little more time with at Lanzerac, included: Margot, Esmerélda, Simoné, Elke and Steffeni.  During their one-on-one sessions, Steffeni asked him why he really entered Boer Soek ’n Vrou, leading to an emotional conversation and him opening up about his dad passing away, time running out and the fact that he doesn’t want to be alone. Tyson, the farmer who received the most letters this season, prepped for his flash appointments with a couple of “this-or-that questions just to break the ice.”  He also made notes from the women’s letters and decided to ask them questions from that during the quick five minutes he had with each.  Marciel Hopkins wanted to know why the women had written for an English farmer and Mareli quickly said what everyone thought: “Because he can speak Afrikaans.” During the flash appointments, Ariami made a statement with a leopard-print mask, flirting right from the start, saying that Tyson is even better looking in real life!  The flirting didn’t stop there, though. Annelle wanted to know if Tyson was nervous, admitting to him that she did not realise he was going to be that good looking. She even asked him if he thought she was beautiful, to which he obviously had to say yes.  Tyson had some flash questions for Zanri, who appeared a little shyer than the two women before her. In response to Tyson’s flash question, “coffee or tea,” Chantelle told him she’s allergic to coffee.  Luanet prefers white wine over red, and winter over summer. Tyson asked Nadine if she would like to take on a career on the farm, which led her to tell him about her dream of a herb garden and a farmstall with fresh ‘roosterkoek’.  Jogger Alri said that she needs a jogging buddy and we’re not sure if she referred to Tyson or her dog. Rachelle said she would definitely like to have children one day – preferably boys and at least three of them.  Mareli said she would also like to have at least three children, while Nina was a bit more conservative, settling for two.  The tension was high during Tyson’s flash sessions and afterwards, he let out a sigh of relief, saying he needed a new shirt. He later admitted to Marciel that he wants four children one day.  When the time came to choose his top five, he asked Chantelle, Rachelle, Alri, Nadine and Annelle to stay a bit longer. The series‘ third episode also included some feedback from farmers Johan, Willem and Petré on their thoughts following a day of getting to know their chosen top five women.  Johan admitted that he enjoyed the appointments and that he had hope. He also said that the choices he now had to make were more difficult than he had thought it would be – something all the farmers said at one point or another. READ: ‘Boer Soek ’n Vrou’ – Flash appointments filled with nerves and giggles Johan eventually invited Liandi, Chanzé and Arina to visit him on the farm. Willem said that he made his decision solely on what he felt, asking Nicky, Chantel and Sonja to visit him on the farm and Petré invited Eloise, Lourize and Bu-Anda to experience farm life – his everyday life – with him. After spending a little more time with the women he chose, Nelis picked Margot (who travelled across the world to meet him), Esmerélda and Steffeni to visit him on the farm. Tyson trusted his gut and asked Alri, Annelle and Chantelle to come and spend some time with him on the farm. Who will enjoy farm life the most? This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.