Binnelanders actor and former ADAM band member Reynardt Hugo has taken to Instagram with some exciting news this week. His wife, An-Mare Roothman Hugo is pregnant with their first child. Simone Nortmann, who calls him Reyperd, was one of the first to respond to the good news. “Aaaaaah, congratulations, Reyperd and @anmareroothmanhugo! Blessed/loved is he/she!” This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Singer Nadine also congratulated them, saying that she is so happy for them, and actor Jacques Adriaanse, who plays Rex van der Linde in Binnelanders, just exclaimed “Ja!” and “Yes!” as if he had been waiting to hear the good news for a long time. ALSO READ: ‘Binnelanders’ actor launches solo career with new single Reynardt added a green heart to the post as a caption and tagged his wife – who hasn’t posted anything about her pregnancy on Instagram or Facebook yet – in it. The post features an image of a babygro, a dummy and a toy, with a black board stating that baby Hugo will be arriving in July 2022. The couple got married in April last year with An-Mare sharing a post saying: “A new family was born: Team Hugo est. 2021 by the grace of God.” Although they are not very transparent with their personal lives, Reynardt once also posted a picture of his wife whom he calls his Anna, saying that although she is now his wife, she is also his favourite friend. Reynardt – who plays the role of Dr Tertius Jonker in the kykNET Soapie, Binnelanders – recently also wrote a book called Soldaat – a memoir of a lost and wounded soul. Like many others, Reynardt also took refuge in alcohol, cannabis, women and pornography, hoping to hide his pain. The book and his life bears witness to the fact that God doesn’t remain silent when we suffer, and to how we can break through despair into hope with God’s help. In addition to Reynardt’s recent solo debut, An-Mare and his little miracle are also proof that there is light at the end of the tunnel – something to look forward to for the inspirational young couple.