Two fields of 11 runners each are carded to go into the first leg of the World Sports Betting Triple Crown and the Wilgerbosdift Triple Tiara at Turffontein tomorrow. By around 3.30pm, just two horses will remain with a chance of taking home the R2-million bonus for winning all three legs of the Triple Crown, or the R1-million on offer for the Triple Tiara. Get all your local and international horse racing news, as found in The Citizen’s Racing Express daily, byclicking here.     What we all want to know, is which of the two horses will be the last “man” and “woman” standing. The Grade 2 World Sports Betting Gauteng Guineas and the Wilgerbosdrift Gauteng Fillies Guineas, form the respective first legs of the Triple Crown and the Triple Tiara for fillies. The two other legs of the Triple Crown are the Grade 1 SA Classic over 1800m and Grade 2 SA Derby over 2450m while in the case of the Triple Tiara, they are the Grade 1 SA Fillies Classic and Grade 2 SA Oaks. Mike de Kock has the favourite in both races but interestingly, the fortune of a horse winning all three legs is very different for both events. Although she has not run since finishing a 0.20-length second behind Chansonette in the Grade 1 Cape Fillies Guineas at Kenilworth, Desert Miracle looks very hard to beat. In fact, while there was great shock at her defeat last time, considering the subsequent performances of Chansonette, it was by no means a bad run. Andre Nel’s runner has gone on to finish second behind Captain’s Ransom in two Grade 1 races, beaten just 0.20 lengths in the Cartier Paddock Stakes over 1800m and 0.40 lengths in the Grade 1 Majorca Stakes over 1600m. In the Fillies Guineas, the rest of the field was well defeated, so it is hard to oppose Desert Miracle in the Gauteng Fillies Guineas. There is a Pick 6 carryover of R1 million going into the meeting with a likely pool of R5 million. The card is not straightforward and there is little doubt Desert Miracle is going to be a popular banker. However, if she does win, will De Kock aim her at the other two legs of the Triple Tiara? That is unlikely, and while the Grade 1 Wilgerbosdrift SA Fillies Classic might be an option the Grade 2 SA Oaks over 2450m looks beyond her capability. The reverse is true of the Gauteng Guineas. De Kock saddles Safe Passage and Aragosta, first and third in the Grade 2 Dingaans over 1600m last November. Prior to the race, De Kock said 1600m was probably too short for his duo but felt the Dingaans field was below par and that was why he gave them a go. This time they will be meeting far stronger opposition and his pair could get caught flat-footed when it matters most. However, if one of them does win the Guineas, they will be very strong contenders for the next two legs over further. So, who can beat his runners? De Kock has good backup in the Fillies Guineas with Clafoutis and Bold Act. The two runners who stand out as the biggest threat to Desert Miracle, are Sprinkles and Rain In Holland. We probably have not seen the best of Sprinkles but trainer Paul Peter rates this filly daughter of Elusive Fort highly. She is drawn No 1 and has Warren Kennedy up. Rain In Holland was one of the best two-year-old fillies in the land and won the Grade 1 Thekwini Stakes at Greyville. She has run three successive thirds since returning as a three- year-old and last time ended up 2.20 lengths behind Sprinkles but is now 3kg better off. Richard Fourie will ride Sean Tarry’s charge and they will jump from barrier No 2. There are a lot more to threaten Safe Passage and Aragosta over 1600m and perhaps  the best  of these are William Robertson and Supreme Warrior. The former has done little wrong and looks to have had the best build-up to this race. His last run, when narrowly beaten by Ma- jestic Mozart in a Progress Plate over this course and distance, was very decent and he should be right there. Get all your local and international horse racing news, as found in The Citizen’s Racing Express daily, byclicking here.     But the most interesting runner is Mike and Adam Azzie- trained Supreme Warrior, who has only run twice for two wins. In his first race, he came from well off the pace over 1200m on the Inside track to win going away. His second start was over 1450m at the same track and this time he sat up with the pace and then, to quote Mike Azzie, “was in cruise mode and easily put the field to bed”. He completed the final 400m in an extraordinary 21.40sec. “He’s a very smart colt,” said Azzie. “It’s a long time since I’ve had a horse like him. Of course, he’s still got to show us he can do it in a race, but he is really exciting. “If I didn’t think he could win, I would not have put him in the race.” Grant van Niekerk has made the trip from Cape Town to ride the son of Vercingetorix.