Here are the latest developments in Russia’s attack on Ukraine: The United States and Germany slam Russian President Vladimir Putin for putting his nuclear forces on alert, saying he was again “manufacturing threats that don’t exist” because his invasion of Ukraine “has been halted”. ALSO READ: Putin nuclear alert ‘totally unacceptable’: US Russia’s invasion force has lost momentum and is having logistical and supply problems after facing stiff Ukrainian resistance, the White House claims. US officials say it has failed to gain air superiority as Moscow admits to killed and injured soldiers. Ukraine claims to have expelled Russian troops from its second city Kharkiv in the east of the country after Russian armoured vehicles got through its defences. ALSO READ: Ukraine army secures Kharkiv, expelling Russian troops, says governor Ukraine says it is holding the line around the capital Kyiv but was fighting Russian “sabotage groups” that had infiltrated the city. Ukraine agrees to hold talks with Russia at its border with Belarus – near the Chernobyl exclusion zone – after a call between President Volodymyr Zelensky and Belarus leader Alexander Lukashenko. The talks come as Russia orders an advance “from all directions”. It claims to have besieged the southern cities of Kherson close to Crimea and Berdyansk on the Sea of Azov. The UN’s refugee agency says tens of thousands are fleeing the fighting, with most crossing into Poland as the total tally reaches 400,000. Others are seeking shelter in Hungary, Romania, Moldova and Slovakia. Pope Francis calls for humanitarian corridors for civilians to escape the fighting. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Russia arrests more than 2,000 anti-war protesters across the country Sunday, bringing to 5,250 the number held for demonstrating against the attack. Ukraine’s Antonov-225 cargo plane – the world’s largest – is destroyed by Russian strikes on the recaptured Gostomel airport outside Kyiv. Turkey says it is implementing the treaty giving it the power to limit warships passing through the Dardanelles and the Bosphorus straits to the Black Sea after Ukraine appealed to Ankara to close it to Russian ships. The Russia delegation head at a major climate conference apologises for his country’s invasion of Ukraine, saying he failed to “find any justification for the attack”. Hundreds of thousands of people around the world take part in Ukraine solidarity marches from Berlin to Baghdad to Quito, with many chanting “shame” on Putin. Brussels announces swingeing new sanctions against Russia and Belarus as well as help to transport weapons worth 450 million euros to Ukraine, after crippling part of Moscow’s international trade by removing some Russian banks from the SWIFT interbank system. Canada and EU nations close their airspaces to Russian aircraft in protest at the invasion with curbs also put on oligarchs, Putin and his Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov. Germany breaks a long tradition by sending 1,000 anti-tank weapons and 500 “Stinger” surface-to-air missiles to help Ukraine. Sweden puts its neutrality aside to dispatch weapons to a war zone for the first time since Hitler and Stalin invaded neighbouring Finland in 1939. ALSO READ: Ukraine launches website for Russians to find killed soldiers Former US president Donald Trump praises Putin as “smart” after earlier describing Putin’s invasion plan as a “genius” move. But the Russian president is suspended as honorary president of the International Judo Federation. Billionaire financier Mikhail Fridman, one of Russia’s richest men, calls for the bloodshed to end, saying this “will cost lives and damage two nations who have been brothers for hundreds of years”. Elon Musk orders his SpaceX’s Starlink satellite service to supply broadband to Ukraine after Russia tries to block internet coverage. Germany says it will invest 100 billion euros ($112 billion) in military equipment this year and plough more than two percent of its output into defence annually. Google follows Facebook in preventing Russian state media from earning money on its platforms in response to the invasion of Ukraine. ALSO READ: Facebook bans Russia state media from running ads, monetising World Cup champions France say Russia should be expelled from the tournament in November after the Czech Republic, Sweden and Poland boycott play-off matches against them. England also refuse to play them.