This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Ukraine announced Thursday that Russian forces had captured the Chernobyl nuclear power plant after a “fierce” battle on the first day of the Kremlin’s invasion of its ex-Soviet neighbour. “After the absolutely senseless attack of the Russians in this direction, it is impossible to say that the Chernobyl nuclear power plant is safe. This is one of the most serious threats to Europe today,” said Mykhailo Podolyak, advisor to the chief of the presidential administration. On Thursday explosions could be heard in several cities in Ukraine as Russia launched a major military assault.  Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has introduced martial law, which restricts movement and mass gatherings.  Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Ukraine was facing a “full-scale invasion” and pleaded for the rest of the world to “act immediately”. The European Union (EU) said it is preparing a “package of massive and targeted sanctions” against Russia.   “With this package, we will target strategic sectors of the Russian economy by blocking their access to key technologies and markets. We will weaken Russia’s economic base and its capacity to modernise,” said European Commission Chief Ursula von der Leyen. The EU’s foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said Russia faces “unprecedented isolation” over its attack on Ukraine. “This is not a question of blocs. This is not a question of diplomatic power games. It’s a matter of life and death. It is about the future of our global community,” he said. ALSO READ: Russia declares war, Ukraine introduces martial law Borrell said Russia will be hit with the “harshest sanctions”.  Ukraine’s armed forces find themselves vastly outnumbered and outmatched in firepower by their Russian opponents, despite growing military assistance for Kyiv’s troops by the West. Russian President Vladimir Putin, whose country had massed some 150,000 troops on the border in recent months, on Thursday ordered military operations against Ukraine. There are also, according to Western estimates, some 30,000 Russian troops deployed in Belarus, ostensibly for exercises, who could also attack Ukraine from the north. And Russia has massed naval forces in the Black Sea and closed to navigation the Sea of Azov between Russia and Ukraine. According to the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS), Russia’s armed forces amount to 900,000 troops, plus some two million reserves and more than half a million other forces. Ukraine’s forces meanwhile amount to barely more than the number of troops Russia had amassed around its borders, with a standing army of 145,000, 45,000 in the air force and 11,000 in the navy, according to the IISS. It has some 100,000 other forces and 900,000 reserve soldiers. Analysts also note that the gulf in firepower is even wider in terms of military hardware, with Russia’s almost 16,000 armoured fighting vehicles — including tanks — dwarfing the Ukrainian fleet of 3,300. Artillery numbers show a similar difference, while the Ukrainian air force is a tenth the size of its Russian counterpart. “The military balance of power is totally overwhelming” in favour of Moscow, said Francois Heisbourg, special advisor to the Foundation for Strategic Research (FRS) in Paris. On Wednesday, economist Azar Jammine said the conflict in Ukraine could have both positive and negative effects for South Africa. Jammine, director and chief economist of Econometrix, said South Africa has so far held strong. One of the reasons for this is that commodity prices have increased. The conflict between Russia and Western powers means there will be a shortage of minerals, such as palladium, and oil. This will be good and bad for South Africa. “The shortage of palladium will benefit South Africa. However, the shortage of oil will lead to a rise in fuel prices,” said Jammine. The economist, however, warned that South Africa’s economy will suffer in the long run once war was declared between Russia and Ukraine. “For the whole, global economic growth will suffer and South Africa will be affected by this. But, for now the country is benefitting from the commodity price increases,” said Jammine. NOW READ: Ukraine crisis holds both good and bad prospects for South Africa