The much-anticipated announcement of the new judging panel of Idols SA and the somewhat surprising comeback of Somizi Mhlongo took place at Urban Brew Studios on Wednesday.  The beloved media personality takes his position back on the judging panel after some personal controversy last year saw him temporarily booted off the show. Somizi was accused by his estranged husband Mohale Motaung of abuse, an allegation he continued to deny during the media briefing.  The other judges are respected hip hop artist JR Bogopa and actress and performer Thembi Seete.  Somizi said he didn’t want to delve into his private life as he is still dealing with the serious allegations against him and just wanted to focus on being the best judge on Idols SA.  ALSO READ: ‘Idols SA’: Somizi’s making a huge comeback in 2022 Seete is no stranger on our screens, the performer is well known for her role as part of the kwaito group Boom Shaka and is currently an actress on Gomora. Seete said what she will be looking out for as a judge is that “magic”, someone who has a presence of becoming a superstar, adding she couldn’t describe it as such but rather a singer who has it all.  JR added that they will be keeping their minds open to the different type of contestants but Somizi said he’s looking for new amapiano talent. “I want someone from amapiano to win, to continue to show this is South African Idols.” He further stated it will be raw rural talent from untouched parts of the country. Somizi said he will be bringing something different from his previous appearances on the show, “bigger and better”.  So, how did the Idols SA judges describe themselves? JR said he will be his own version of himself and won’t mimic previous judges.  “I will be the best version of JR. Some people have said my critique is harsh but it is constructive,” he said.  It was the first time all three of the judges were in the same room since getting the job and the chemistry was easy between them. The conversation and advice flowed throughout, with Somizi adding that they have all worked together before for different projects over the past two decades.  Director of Local Entertainment Channels at M-Net Nomsa Philiso, said ratings and attracting a new audience formed part of their decision when the new judges were chosen.