The reality of another dry season dawned on Kaizer Chiefs as their chances of a trophy evaporated like morning dew at the sight of sunlight on Saturday evening. Amakhosi suffered a bruising 1-0 defeat to TS Galaxy at FNB Stadium meaning a quick end to their Nedbank Cup campaign. READ ALSO: ‘Here you adapt or you jump,’ says Galaxy coach Ramovic With Mamelodi Sundowns proving unstoppable in their quest for a fifth consecutive title, Amakhosi are doomed for another season – their eighth in a row – without any silverware.  Galaxy showed some fluidity early on with some enterprising attacks but lacked the sting up front. They should have found the first goal in the 15th minute when Lindokuhle Mbatha crossed the ball inside from the left but Lifa Hlongwane couldn’t connect his shot properly leaving Brandon Petersen to make an easy save.  Chiefs also had some promising forward forays but also lacked the final pass at the critical phases of their attack.  Petersen was called into action again in the 21st minute and proved equal to the task as he parried Mbatha’s stinging shot for a corner. From the resultant corner, Bernard Parker was lucky to get away with it when he handled the ball inside the box.  Five minutes later, Augustine Kwem went narrowly wide with his shot with Petersen beaten as the Rockets continued to put the hosts under pressure.  Having survived the onslaught in the first half, Chiefs came out better organised for the second half and created their best chance of the match in the 52nd minute but Nkosingiphile Ngcobo failed to use the chance after he was set though on goal by Khama Billiat. He fired a tame shot straight at Melusi Buthelezi in Galaxy’s goals.  But a minute later they were a goal down as Kwem finally found the back of the net. He leaped onto an attempted back pass by Phathutshedzo Nange and sent the ball flying past Petersen. Chiefs made double substitutions with Billiat and Ngezana taken off and Samir Nurkovic and Leonardo Castro coming on in their places. This changed their attacking formation and they started creating some chances but couldn’t really make anything of them.  Chiefs had the ball in the back of the net in the 83rd minute but it was ruled offside and that about summed up the night for Amakhosi.