Founded by LitWord in 2010, World Read Aloud Day serves as a reminder of the privilege of being literate, while also advocating for literacy as a human right, with people across the globe reading aloud and telling stories to younger children. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The most effective method of developing children’s literacy, is to read to them. Children’s books serve as tools to educate little ones to dream big and to remember that those dreams are always worth pursuing. It provides children with access to some of the world’s most enlightened wisdom – in the form of stories. Books are the pinnacle of self-education and self-empowerment – something that every child, regardless of gender, ethnicity or background should have access to. Reading aloud can assist in promoting a child’s self-esteem. It can also help them manage better with anxiety. Reading aloud might even improve children’s memory, widening their horizons. By reading aloud to children, you help them to develop a healthy brain, which is essential for their future successes in school and beyond. Ultimately, reading aloud to children gives them a bit of a head start in life. The skills that children learn while listening to a book being read aloud, are immeasurable. They learn about the handling of books, the naming of books, understanding how stories operate and detecting sounds and letters. It also expands their vocabulary and hones their ability to listen. When a caring adult or teen reads aloud to a younger child, these are all skills that are transmitted to the child. ALSO READ: Bontle Ndhlovu: 8-year-old publishes her first book Books cannot change current circumstances or conditions, but they can assist youngsters to navigate through them. It’s a gateway to the imagination, allowing little readers to discover new worlds, meet new characters and go on adventures. The journey of a lifetime starts with the mere turn of a page. The Early Childhood Development sector was struck very hard during the Covid-19 pandemic. Following months of closure, only a small number of preschools, playgroups and creches were able to reopen due to financial concerns. Now, more than ever, the simple act of reading aloud to a child (on World Read Aloud Day and any other day) is a priceless gift. The NPO, READ Educational Trust (founded in 1979) collaborates with the Department of Education to bring teacher training and literacy initiatives to schools. As part of World Read Aloud Day, Reading Champions at schools will celebrate the day by utilising resources provided by a WhatsApp chatbot lined to Nal’ibali (isiXhosa for ‘here’s the story’) – a national Reading-for-Enjoyment initiative aimed at igniting children’s potential through storytelling and reading. They are commemorating the occasion with a brand-new narrative, Mabel Mensa’s A Party In The Park, and families and members of the public are invited to join in and read the story aloud. You can also find a downloadable audiobook series on READ Educational Trust’s website, which parents, guardians and elder siblings can play to younger children – something that resembles reading aloud.