The Covid-19 pandemic has made it a norm for people to spend more time at home and away from crowded, overpopulated spaces such as malls and party venues to prevent contracting the coronavirus.  Couples usually celebrate and spend their Valentine’s Day out at restaurants enjoying a romantic candlelight dinner, but you do not need to go out for an expensive Valentine’s Day dinner as you can recreate it at home.  Follow these easy and simple steps to prepare a romantic Valentine’s Day at home for yourself and your significant other.  Start off the preparations by tidying up your home and making it a welcoming space. Once your space is neat and tidy, add some romantic elements to your home such as rose petals, scented candles, wine glasses and dimmed lights.  ALSO READ: Daily hacks: How to make a skeleton model for a school project Take some time before the Valentine’s Day date to pamper yourself. Take a bath with essential oils and bubble bath, wash and condition your hair, use body scrubs and beautifully scented body washes, and thoroughly moisturise your body to leave your skin looking and feeling super smooth.  A bright smile is a major confidence booster. If you feel that you may need to brighten or lighten your teeth, then make sure to book an appointment with a professional dentist ahead of time to get a teeth whitening treatment.   Valentine’s Day is all about the love which you share with your significant other, so things are bound to get sensual sometime during the evening.  Try treating your partner to a sensual full body massage using safe and deliciously scented massage oils and massage lotions.   You could also take a hot bubble bath with your partner with a glass of champagne in hand to bond and further enjoy each other’s physical presence.  Valentine’s Day does not have to be about expensive chocolates and rich desserts. Create your own homemade desserts which you know your partner will be sure to love.  If you are a part of the weightwatchers club, there are many fat-free, and sugar-free chocolates, sweets and desserts you could buy or make to make your Valentine’s Day just as sweet.