As Orlando Pirates prepare to take on JS Soura in their opening game of the Caf Confederation Cup group stages at the Orlando Stadium on Sunday, reserves coach Mandla Qhogi is hopeful that his protégé Boitumelo Radiopane will be getting some game time in the first team in the continental competition. ALSO READ: Ncikazi’s Afcon comments are just ridiculous hogwash Radiopane has been exceptional in the Buccaneers reserve team competing in the DStv Diski Challenge, where he has scored 16 goals so far. But, since being promoted to the senior squad last year, the young goal-poacher has not been able to break into the line-up in the Pirates senior team, similar to the fate of Thabiso Monyane, who has also been doing well in the reserves. “Look, I think our young players have been doing very well and that is because they are committed to the team. They are playing for the badge and that is why you are seeing them doing great work in the DStv Diski Challenge. They are both senior team players, but they have found it very hard to break into the starting line-up,” said Mqhogi. “But, they are patient, that’s what I like about them, because they understand that nothing really comes easy. And another thing is that they are not getting demoralized, they just continue working hard because they know that at some point, their chance to play will come. But now, with Radiopane being registered for the Caf Confederation Cup, I am sure that is where his chance to play will come. He has been extremely good, but it’s not only him, all our players in the current squad are working hard.” Despite Radiopane continuing his scoring spree for the Bucs juniors, while the senior team strikers are struggling to score, Qhogi says he understands why the young striker is not considered. “We all know that the club is under pressure to win trophies, I mean, it took a long time for us to win something after lifting the MTN8 last season. And again, the competition is very high, you have players like Tshegofatso Mabaso, Kwame Peprah and Gabadinho Mhango fighting for the same position. So, what he just has to do is learn from them.”