Former Idols SA judge and media personality Unathi Nkayi has bagged another radio gig just months after her acrimonious exit from Kaya FM.  In an announcement on Tuesday, Nkayi posted a short video clip confirming that her new job will start at the beginning of next month when most stations usually do away with old talent and refresh their lineups.  “Guyzini, it seems like this radio thing doesn’t wanna let me go because from the 1st of March you wanna know what I’m going to be doing, I’m going to be driving you home. What! 3-6, drive time, 1st March, I’ll see you there,” exclaimed Unathi.  What she didn’t say, however, is which station she will be joining leading to speculation among her fans.  Some fans guessed that she would be joining 947, however, that slot is currently filled by Thando Thabethe.  Others speculated that she would be returning to Metro FM where the drive time slot is currently held by DJ duo Sphe and Naves.  ALSO READ: ‘Idols SA’: Somizi’s making a huge comeback in 2022 The third most popular suggestion is Radio 2000, where her former colleague Glen Lewis hosts the Glenzito Super Drive with Nathi Ndamase.  With about three weeks to go until she starts her new gig, only time will tell where exactly she will be going.  She was unceremoniously fired from Kaya FM three months ago as the station cited a “breakdown of trust” after a dispute between Unathi and another Kaya FM host, Sizwe Dhlomo.  “Nkayi’s contract has ended prematurely due to certain conduct that rendered the relationship intolerable going forward. Kaya 959 can confirm that certain incidents had occurred, which resulted in the breakdown of the trust relationship between the two parties. “The business can further confirm that due process was followed and the decision was therefore made to part ways with Ms Nkayi,” said the radio station in a statement last year. She will also not be returning as an Idols SA judge after DStv confirmed earlier this year that they would be “shaking things up” for the upcoming 18th season of the popular singing competition. READ NEXT: Unathi Nkayi bags a new gig at Mzansi Magic