South African captain Keenan Horne is looking forward to his team putting aside the mixed fortunes they have had against top opposition and performing with more consistency against them in the FIH Hockey Pro League that gets underway in Potchefstroom from Tuesday. The home side are missing a couple of key players as they take on the Netherlands, India, France and Germany in the South African leg of the league this month. The Dutch, Indians and Germans are all powerhouses of the game, although they have come to Potchefstroom with some new players as they begin preparations for the World Cup in a year’s time. ALSO READ: SA hockey men will grow by facing the best, says coach Ewing South Africa were 3-0 up against the Netherlands in last year’s Olympic Games, before losing 5-3, but they did pull off a famous 4-3 win over Germany, who were winners by the same scoreline in their previous meeting, which followed 6-2 and 6-1 wins in the two Tests before that. India have beaten South Africa 5-1 and 5-0 in their last two engagements. “Even if our primary aim is to grow the team, as a competitive player you always want to win,” Horne said. “We don’t always get the chance to play against teams in the top-eight and it’s usually in tough tournament conditions. “So it is always great to get one of their scalps and we know we are able to do it, but we really need to build our consistency. What we really want is to be able to compete in every single game.” While South Africa will have home-ground advantage – Potchefstroom bringing heat and high-altitude into the equation – Horne said their opponents have shown the ability to adapt to different conditions. “We’re coming up against really top teams who tour all around the world, so they play in all sorts of conditions and they are used to adjusting,” the skipper said. “But the altitude and heat will not be as difficult for us, so if it is an advantage and we will take whatever we can get.” South Africa have certainly shown the ability to score goals – notching 11 in their three matches against Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands at the Olympics – but coach Garreth Ewing said they had to shore up their defence in the Pro League, especially since they had a tough opening fixture against the Dutch at 8pm on Tuesday. “The Netherlands are very skilful and gifted all around the field and it’s going to be a challenge for our defence. That’s our first focus, trying to get that right,” Ewing said.