In this royal update, it was revealed in a conversation Princess Diana had in 1991 that she confronted Camilla about the affair she was having with Prince Charles. The Queen, as well as Prince William, have approved of Camilla becoming “Queen Consort” once Prince Charles ascends to the throne, and an update of Princess Charlene has been shared through a statement from the Prince’s Palace of Monaco.  The late Princess Diana once clashed with Prince Charles’s now wife, Camilla, at a birthday bash which was held for Camilla’s sister Annabel Elliot in 1989. Mirror recently revealed a conversation which was recorded at Kensington Palace two years after the confrontation, in which Diana said that the conversation she had with Camilla was one of the bravest moments she had experienced in her life.  Diana explained that during the party she went on the quest of looking for her Camilla, but people pleaded for her to not head downstairs.  “They tried to stop me from going downstairs. ‘Diana, don’t go down there'”. The late princess then said: “I’m just going to find my husband”. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Prince Charles, Camilla ‘touched and honoured’ by The Queen’s endorsement “I thought, all right, this is your moment, so I went and sat down and joined in the conversation as though we were all best friends. “And I said, ‘Camilla, I’d love to have a word with you, if possible.’ And she got really uncomfortable, put her head down and she said, ‘Oh yes, all right.’ “And I said to the two men, ‘Ok, boys I’m just going to have a quick word with Camilla, and I’ll be up in a minute’. “They shot upstairs like chickens with no heads and I could feel, upstairs, all hell breaking loose. ‘What is she going to do?’,” explained Princess Diana.  She then said to Camilla: “‘Camilla, would you like to sit down?’ So we sat down and I was terrified of her. And I said, ‘Camilla, I would just like you to know that I know exactly what’s going on’. “She said ‘I don’t know what you’re talking about.’ I said ‘I know what’s going on between you and Charles, and I just want you to know that.’ “And she said to me, very interestingly, she said to me, ‘You’ve got everything you’ve ever wanted. You’ve got all the men in the world falling in love with you, you’ve got two beautiful children, what more do you want?’ “I want my husband,” said Diana.  ALSO READ: Royal news: Kate and William to start quiet country life, Harry to return to UK Camilla’s entry into the royal family was a hard adjustment for the other royal family members, especially Prince William and Prince Harry after the death of their mother, Princess Diana.  Queen Elizabeth recently celebrated a huge milestone as the matriarch, as she marked 70 years of her reign as the Queen of England.  Harpers Bazaar revealed that at the start of Queen Elizabeth II’s Platinum Jubilee, she took the time to announce that she would like for Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, to be addressed as Queen Consort once her husband, Prince Charles, takes his place as king.  A royal source revealed that Prince William was happy with the queen’s decision, and that he was aware of her wishes before the queen marked 70 years as the matriarch on the throne.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The Prince’s Palace of Monaco has recently shared an update on Princess Charlene’s health and her journey to recovery.  The translated statement begins by saying that the princess is recovering in an encouraging manner.  “Convalescence of H.S.H. Princess Charlene is currently continuing in a satisfying and very encouraging way,” said the statement.  The statement also revealed that Charlene is currently undergoing health and dental treatment which will continue for several weeks. This means that she will not be able to attend the festivities of the Sainte Dévote which will soon take place.  “Charlene’s recovery and dental treatment will still take several weeks, and as a result, she unfortunately will not be able to attend the festivities of the Sainte Dévote this year,” said the statement.  “With her husband H.S.H. Prince Albert II, she shares her heart with all Monegasques and residents on the occasion of these celebrations.  “As soon as her health will allow, it will be with joy that the Princess once again share moments of conviviality with them. “During this period, the Royal Couple requests that their private life and that of their children continue to be respected,” the statement concludes.