Popular South African musician and reality TV star Busiswa Gqulu will star in a recently launched two-part show called Love & Hip Hop: Lineage to Legacy.  The show is set to premiere on Monday, 7 February 2022 and will follow the Love & Hip Hop cast members as they trace their roots and ancestry.  The Black Ink Crew will also make an appearance. “I am so excited to be part of this two-part show because it’s about African ancestry and the cast finding their lineage including myself. I am happy to be a part of this because everyone knows how proud I am to be an African girl who reaches all parts of the world and now gets to be a part of one of the biggest reality franchises in the world,” said Busiswa in a statement.The singer was reportedly cast by none other than Mona Scott-Young herself – the brains behind the Love & Hip Hop franchise.  According to VH1, the pair met while Busiswa was on a six-week tour in the USA late last year.  ALSO READ: Rihanna dragged for sampling DJ Maphorisa and Busiswa ‘Midnight Starring’ “I was invited to the show by Mona Scott-Young, the executive producer; she is an incredible woman running this franchise. I got on her radar while I was in the US and also her knowing my work from the feature with Beyonce must have had its part,” explained Busiswa.  “My scenes were shot on location in Atlanta and the entire shoot was amazing and such a great experience to meet all of the cast and to learn tricks of the trade from Mona Scott-Young as someone who really plans to go much deeper into broadcasting and hopefully be able to do a second season of my reality show ‘Her Majesty: Busiswaah’ with BET.” Love & Hip Hop: Lineage to Legacy will be hosted by MTV News correspondent Dometi Pongo and it will star Love & Hip Hop alumni Remy Ma, Papoose, Yandy Smith-Harris, Rich Dollaz, Tokyo Vanity, Paris Phillips, Karlie Redd, and Momma Dee as they “examine the harsh effects of slavery and challenge stereotypes with Black culture, while also celebrating Africa’s rich history, music, craftsmanship, style, dance and food”.  Liberian celebrity chef Chauncy Yarngo and South African singer Nomcebo Zikode are also set to make special appearances on the show. “My role on the show as an African artist was to meet with the African American artists and really share what it has been like to be someone who’s always known my lineage, clan names, heritage, culture and able to make music in my native language isiXhosa and what that has been like.”  She contrasted this with the cast’s struggle to even know the lineage of their grandparents.“It was beautiful to fly the flag high for my Africaness, heritage, lineage and culture,” concluded Busiswa. Broadcast dates for Love & Hip Hop: Lineage to Legacy in Africa are yet to be announced.  READ NEXT: Busiswa’s crush on Kabza De Small and other celeb-on-celeb crushes