For most people, December is the perfect time to soak in the splendour of summer. After all, there’s no work or pressing errands to get in the way of your holiday. But some people just don’t have the opportunity to enjoy summer in December. It could be due to overtime, prior commitments, or plain old exhaustion. There’s good news though: South African summers only end in March, which gives you an entire month to enjoy what’s left of the sunny season. Here’s how you can make up for lost time. What comes to mind when you hear the word summer? Probably crystal-clear waves breaking against a shoreline filled with lush vegetation and a holidaymaker soaking up the sun while drinking out of a coconut shell. Give yourself that warm summer feeling with a generous smoothie from a Mugg & Bean near you. Enjoy either a Blueberry, Apple & Vanilla smoothie or sip on the summery blend of Mango, Pineapple & Coconut. What’s the one thing we all envy about the guy who surfs and sleeps all day? Probably the fact that he gets to take it easy all the time. You might not have a wave to surf or a guitar to strum, but you can still master the art of taking it easy. Whenever you get the opportunity to rest, take it as seriously as you do your work. Leave your desk at lunch and head outside to soak up the sun and get some fresh air (no phones allowed). Use your weekends for downtime instead of running errands you couldn’t attend to during the week. Rest is serious business, so start treating it that way. Some of the most succulent fruit and fresh veggies are in season come summer. It would be a missed opportunity to let the season pass without enjoying Mother Nature’s freshest produce. The next time you’re trying to figure out what meal to order online, have a look at Mugg & Bean’s menu. Sure, you’ll spot a few of your familiar favourites, but there are also plenty of meals that are just as good for your tummy as they are on your wallet, especially if you’re a Discovery Vitality member. Discovery Vitality members can get up to 25% cash back when they order Mugg & Bean’s HealthyDining-approved meals. These are the meals with the orange Vitality symbol on the menu, so keep an eye out next time you make your order. Summer is a season that’s completely devoted to leisure and downtime with the ones who matter most. Enjoy what’s left of it before the cold weather creeps in and the warm clothing starts piling up on you.