Fans of the iconic Janet Jackson have been raving about her highly anticipated four-part documentary and now, her South African fans will get to see it too, thanks to M-Net.M-Net announced on their social media platforms in early February that the globally acclaimed documentary, simply titled Janet Jackson, will debut on the channel in the coming weeks.  From Thursday, 17 February at 9:30pm, DStv channel 101 will begin airing the episodes which will then be available on the DStv Catch Up platform an hour after the television broadcast. “M-Net is very excited to bring the much-talked-about Janet Jackson. documentary to the African continent. It’s a never seen before all-encompassing coverage of her career journey and family. We know our viewers will be intrigued by her story,” said Channel Director: M-Net Channels Jan du Plessis in a statement. Janet Jackson's documentary made 15M views just like her The Velvet Rope Tour on HBO combined making 30M views Janet is the most watched female music act to have specials on television nobody breaking her record. Released on the 40th anniversary of her very first album, the documentary seeks to tell the definitive story of Janet Jackson, one of the best-selling and highest-earning artists in music history.  According to a description by M-Net, “Janet has enjoyed immense success but also seen incredible tragedy. She has endured a tumultuous private life in the face of extraordinary public scrutiny. With no stone left unturned, Janet Jackson lifts the lid on her private life for the very first time and reveals the most intimate moments of the star ever caught on camera.” The four-hour documentary event joins Janet as she travels back to her hometown of Gary, Indiana, to see where her incredible journey began.  Speaking like never before, Janet discusses everything including her Superbowl appearance with Justin Timberlake in 2004, the controversy surrounding her brother Michael Jackson, and becoming a mother later in life.She also addresses that controversial rumour about her secret love-child.  "It's Janet… Ms Jackson if you're nasty." Remember those lyrics? Uncover the star power of being a part of a musical family in Janet Jackson. See the documentary on #MNet101.— M-Net (@MNet) February 3, 2022 At the age of seven, Janet’s father, tough talking Joe Jackson, puts her to work in the family show. Her father never asked if she wanted to be a performer, so it’s down to Janet to find her own path. After two unsuccessful albums and a failed marriage, Janet decides that if she’s going to have a musical career, it will be on her own terms; she has to take control of her life. Following the nipplegate controversy, Janet finds herself blacklisted. Refusing to accept defeat, friends and fans fight for her right to be recognised as a true performing legend.