It’s safe to say that audiences are invested in Celebrity Game Night SA – a show that gives them the chance to see their favourite stars in a different and funny light on the E! TV program.   Hosted by media personality Anele Mdoda, Celebrity Game Night SA places famous faces against each other to compete in pop culture games. Returning to lead their celebrity squads in season three are team captains Jason Goliath and Ayanda Thabethe. The new season will see familiar famous faces return to get their competitive juices going and this includes the likes of Minnie Dlamini-Jones, Boity Thulo, Kelly Khumalo, Donovan Goliath, Mpho Popps, Roxy Burger, Lerato Kganyago, Moonchild, Schalk Bezuidenhout and Anne Hirsch.  It was announced during the virtual launch this week that there will be a string of new celebrities appearing to play the over the top and creative pop culture games.  They include actress Dineo Langa, Kaya FM host and comedian Skhumba, Enhle Mbali, Nambitha Ben-Mazwi, David Kau and Jonathan Boynton-Lee.  The new features on the show include exciting new games such as “Seven Seconds of Fame”- the celebrity is tasked to describe whatever within seven seconds and “Scoop”, putting artificial oversized scoops of ice cream on top of a cone if they get the answers correctly.  Anele, Ayanda and Jason said despite the fun they all have on the show, one of their favourite parts is seeing the different personalities that come out of the celebrities. People think they know these public figures well, however, Celebrity Game Night SA allows the celebs to let their guard down and have fun, Jason says.  It won’t just be local celebs who will get to compete, it will feature African stars, such as comedian Josh Alfred (popular known as Josh2Funny), television presenter Stephanie Coker and Nollywood power couple Ibrahim and Linda Suleiman. So how are Ayanda and Jason as team captains? Ayanda was described as a feisty, super competitive and motivating leader, whilst Jason had similar qualities but was described as a softie.  Jason said his all-time favourite guest was fellow comedian MoJak Lehoko and award-winning songstress Lira, admitting he was intimidated by her presence, joking he imagined her singing her answers or descriptions during a game.  All three agreed that the celebs they would like on the show who haven’t appeared are Somizi Mhlongo and South African broadcast legend Rian Cruywagen.  Celebrity Game Night SA, season three starts on Sunday, 13 February at 8pm on E! (DStv Channel 124).