Oats are a staple breakfast for many South African homes, and they conjure up nostalgic memories for many people who grew up on them, particularly that red box of Jungle oats in the cupboard.  A brand that has been synonymous in people’s pantries as a way to start their day since 1920, it was amusing to me to find out that Jungle oats, as a company, is just known as Jungle.  The brand is considered a trusted purchase for many consumers. And their perfectly timed new campaign is delivering some upbeat news.  There is a general consensus that locals want to hear more positive and good news stories.  The news cycles are usually not optimistic in Mzansi, with the consistent bombardment of crime, corruption, political and sports scandals, and not to mention the Covid-19 pandemic. Jungle’s new campaign hopes to help change this tune.  Their “Little acts of hearts” aims to shine a spotlight on people doing their part to give back and make a difference, the brand announced during their launch at the Soleli Building in Bryanston on Tuesday.  ALSO READ: DStv Delicious Festival is back – This is how much tickets cost The initiative hopes to encourage all South Africans to help others in any way they can – no matter how small or big. Lee-Ann Govender, Tiger Brands marketing director of cereals says the warmth, kindness, generosity and sense of belonging from South Africans is far-reaching. The initiative from Jungle is to remind people who we are as a nation through the tough times.  She elaborates that it will be easy for people to show their “little acts of hearts”, such as helping someone cross the road, allowing someone to get ahead of the queue, or homeless people directing traffic when the traffic lights are out – small acts that people don’t brag about because it is part of our culture as a country.  Andrew Shuttleworth, group operations director of Brave Group, reiterated the acts don’t have to be grand and over the top.  “The key is selflessness and expecting nothing in return. Our aspirations are for continuous change in behaviour and a long term positive impact for our nation.”  He said people can participate by doing an act of kindness, take a picture or video, post it on social media and tagging Jungle’s account handles with the hashtag.  Their brand ambassador or spokesperson is the adorable and likeable “Heartie”, a red heart animated figure with big blue eyes.  Take a look: The target is one million acts. Jungle will match that by donating food hampers to the value of R1 million to those in need through selected charity partners. There are murals designed by street artists across the country, two in Cape Town, Durban and two in Johannesburg (Rosebank and Johannesburg CBD).  This gives people the opportunity to do a photo op share it in the spirit of ubuntu.