Banyana Banyana will be aiming for a win at home when they lock-horns with Algeria in the first leg of the final round of the Africa Women’s Cup of Nations qualifiers at the Orlando Stadium on Friday. READ ALSO: I knew Thembi would get better offers – Matlou Algeria is not one of the powerhouses in women’s football in the continent, but they have competed in the Women’s Afcon five times since 2004. But, on all five occasions, the North African nations were knocked out at the group stages. And with 12 appearances at the tournament for the South Africans and five times runners-up, with the last time being in 2018 where Banyana lost on penalties to Nigeria – on paper, Desiree Ellis’ charges look to have an upper hand against the Fennecs. But football can be cruel, with Banyana having lost their friendly game 3-0 to Zambia last week. However, the Banyana coach knows that they don’t have to take their opponents for granted and says they have done their homework on the Algerians. “We watched a little bit of Algeria, but I am sure they have watched us as well. So, we needed to work on a few things that we needed to get right going forward. It is looking good so far. We are really excited, the players are looking really eager and we know it’s a big game for us, it is our biggest game. We have played before, we were in a similar situation, we had to win to go to the semi-finals. I think it was 2014 Afcon in Namibia and it’s a game where Portia Modise scored her 101th goal,” said Ellis. “So, we are in a similar situation, we’ve been in this situation a few times whereby it is a must win. We know that the Afcon has shown us that you underestimate a team at your own peril. Algeria football has a huge pedigree and we have to make sure that we execute our plan, keep a clean sheet and half the battle is won.” Back in Namibia was the last time the sides met and Banyana won 5-1thanks to a brace by Modise and a goal each by Amanda Dlamini, Sanah Mollo and Mamello Makhabane, who is in the current Banyana squad.