SOCCER 10 POOL OF THE DAYFriday 25 February S10 V2 AmaZulu have home advantage for a key tie in the African Champions League but take a poor run of goalscoring form into tonight’s game on Durban. More details at www.soccer6.co.za M1 AmaZulu vs Entente Setif: Both clubs have three points from their first two games in their Champions League group, making this a vital tie in the race for a top two finish.M2 Adana Demirspor vs Antalyaspor: Adana Demirspor have collected 10 points from their past four Turkish league games. Antalyaspor have won their last three games in a row.M3 Trabzonspor vs Kayserispor: Turkish league leaders Trabzonspor have won their last five games in a row. Kayserispor beat Galatasaray in the Turkish Cup and then held Fenerbahce in their last two away fixtures.M4 Hannover 96 vs Holstein Kiel: Hannover have three wins and Kiel two in five past clashes between the two clubs. Two of Hannover’s wins have come away from home.M5 Maritzburg United vs Lamontville Golden Arrows: Maritzburg’s victory over SuperSport last week ended a run of 11 games without a win. Arrows have not won in their last six outings.M6 AC Milan vs Udinese: Milan enjoy a two point lead at the top of Serie A after five games without defeat. Udinese have lost only twice on their past six visits to AC Milan.M7 FC Dordrecht vs MVV Maastricht: Dordrecht are second from bottom in the Dutch second divsion but drawn their last two outings. MVV won away at Den Haag in their last game to end a run of eight successive defeats.M8 Excelsior Rotterdam vs Roda JC Kerkrade: Excelsior have scored seven goals in winning their last two matches. Roda have drawn three games in a row.M9 Levante vs Elche: Levante are still bottom of La Liga despite beating champions Atletico Madrid and drawing at Celta Vigo in their last two games. Elche have won two of their past four away games.M10 Southampton vs Norwich City: Southampton are on a five-match unbeaten run and up to 10th in the Premier League standings. Norwich have conceded seven goals in their last two games. Suggested permutation:R8.00 1,2 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1,2 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1