With less than three years having passed since Aston Martin unveiled its first ever SUV, the DBX, the British automaker has now revealed a new, more powerful version claimed to be the world’s most powerful luxury off-roader. Called the DBX707 with the numbers making reference to power output in pferdestarke (PS), the newcomer sits above the standard model and according to Gaydon, “alleviates it to the pinnacle of the segment with a unique combination of blistering performance, supreme dynamics, unmistakable style and absolute luxury”. While still powered by the familiar AMG-sourced 4.0-litre twin-turbo V8, Aston has equipped the engine with ball-bearing turbochargers and recalibrated the mill itself to lift power from 405 kW to 520 kW, and torque from 700 Nm to 900 Nm. Additionally fitted with a new exhaust system, an upgraded electronic limited slip differential and a new ‘wet-clutch’ version of the standard model’s nine-speed automatic gearbox, the DBX707 will sprint from 0-100 km/h in a claimed 3.3 seconds and hit a top speed of 310 km/h. As a means of coping with the extra grunt, the DBX707, aside from the mechanical alternations already mentioned, boasts a revised triple air-suspension system with new valves and dampers, sharpened electric power steering and an altered Electronic Active Roll Control system. Also fitted with a Race Start setting when in GT Sport or Sport+ modes, stopping power comes courtesy of not only a retuned brake booster, but also a ventilated six-piston caliper setup at the front and four at the rear with carbon ceramic discs measuring 420 mm and 390 mm respectively. ALSO READ: All-new DBX thrusts Aston Martin into the SUV scene Aesthetically, the DBX707’s tweaks are comparatively small and limited to standard 22-inch or optional 23-inch black or satin black diamond-turned alloy wheels, a larger satin grille with new air intakes on the flanks of the bumper to aid brake cooling, new splitter and dark satin chrome detailing around the windows. Capping the exterior off are newly designed LED daytime running lights, a new rear spoiler and diffuser, the latter finished in satin black with integrated quad exhaust outlets, gloss black doors sills, a redesigned rear bumper and louvers on the bonnet. Inside, Aston has fitted the otherwise optional sport seats as standard, which can be swapped for the comfort chairs at no extra cost. All are finished in either leather/Alcantara or semi-aniline leather with a perforated pattern on the seatbacks and cushions. The bespoke touches are completed by dark chrome switchgear, piano-key black inserts, and from the options list, chromed carbon fibre inlays as well as a bronze metal mesh or carbon veneer. Going on sale in the first quarter of the year, the Lamborghini Urus and Bentley Bentayga Speed-rivalling DBX707 will have a sticker price of $232 000 (R3 549 194) in the United States with delivers set to commence in the second quarter. For now, availability for South Africa has not been confirmed.