White undereye concealer, a staple of the noughties, is already making a comeback, and with it, the risk of ending up looking like a panda.  Given an update for 2022 by a TikToker, this makeup tip went viral in just a few days, proving that some contouring techniques still have a bright future ahead of them. Generation Z’s infatuation with the noughties was generally a pretty positive thing until a TikTok user brought back a “beauty essential” from the past that we could have done without.  Long abandoned in favour of far more effective products, white undereye concealer resurfaced several weeks ago under the impetus of TikToker @blumarinebae who replicated a decade-old trick. Makeup artists have been warning us for years about avoiding certain mistakes when it comes to concealer, starting with choosing a shade that is too light. So why a white concealer? Why, TikTok, why? Why now?  We thought the return to more natural and authentic makeup looks had ended the reign of contouring, but it’s clearly not the case.  Thanks to white undereye concealer, beauty addicts can once again play with light to structure the face, and bring luminosity to the eye area. In her video, which has now accumulated over 3.7 million views, the creator opts for a white concealer, which she applies at the inner corner of the eye, in a triangle, then draws a line from the outer corner of the eye to the hairline. The next image reveals the young woman perfectly made-up, with brighter spots under the eyes.Note that other users have adapted this technique to their own tastes, but also to their skin tone. Some have been applying white concealer above the lipline, on the chin, and above the eyelid crease, while others have been using a white undereye concealer, followed by a tinted one for a more homogeneous result. Certain rules need to be followed to pull off this popular noughties trick. It’s essential to apply concealer after foundation, as well as to blend it well.  Otherwise, you’ll end up, like some celebrities at the time, with a white stripe under your eyes. Not a very flattering look.