Inspirational Blitzboks captain Siviwe ‘Shakes’ Soyizwapi will be fit and ready to go for their next two events in the 2021/22 World Sevens Series in Singapore and Vancouver in April. Soyizwapi injured his shoulder during the third tournament of this season’s series in Malaga and watched as his team powered to the title, before heading home and completely missing out on the Seville event the following weekend where the Blitzboks racked up their sixth straight tournament title. However, he is expected to make a full recovery for the next event, thanks in part to the Vancouver tournament being moved from the end of February, as he would have originally not been ready for that. “I am blessed that the tournament in Vancouver has been moved to April because I would have only been starting my return to training and contact on the week of that tournament,” explained Soyizwapi. “So to have four extra weeks before the next tournament, I am predicted to be fully recovered. We have some time between the tournaments so we will have a bit of a break now and then when we return we will have a review of our season and plan from there. “We just have to keep on working. We chase perfection, but none of us are perfect, so we just try to get as close to it as possible.” The Blitzboks showed over the last two tournaments that they have a very strong leadership group and are able to handle it if they lose one of their senior players, with Impi Visser picking up the reins in the absence of Soyizwapi. ALSO READ: Captain Soyizwapi opens up about Blitzboks’ stunning winning run The return of the regular skipper will be welcomed, however, as two senior players – Justin Geduld and Muller du Plessis – may not be available for the next events after picking up injuries in Seville. “We are a tight-knit group of players and we have a strong leadership group. Myself, Impi (Visser), Justin (Geduld), Branco (de Preez) and Dewald Human, so it’s an easy transition if someone has to take the reins and we chat quite often,” said Soyizwapi. “I was extremely proud of the guys, especially of the youngsters coming in and taking their opportunities, which is fantastic to see and just strengthens the team.” The Blitzboks will take part in the Singapore Sevens on 9 and 10 April, before heading to Canada for the Vancouver event on 16 and 17 April.