Choosing a perfect moisturiser for your skin doesn’t have to be a difficult task. In fact, filtering through the various moisturisers available on the market can be made a whole lot easier just by knowing your skin type and concerns. By knowing your skin type and concerns, the process of jumping onto the perfect moisturiser formulation is much easier. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Tumi Lehutso from Fundamentals Skincare says: “Skincare is for everyone and should be inclusive. The trick to effective skincare is knowing what type of skin you have and then using the correct products, with the correct ingredients and formulations to accurately treat your skin concerns that is also friendly to your specific skin type.” There are two active ingredients that must always be included in the formulation of a good moisturiser: Ceramide and Raspberry Extract. Why? Ceramides are a class of fatty acids called lipids, which are naturally found in skin cells. They make up about 40% – 50% of the outer layer of your skin and are important in the retaining of moisture and preventing germs to enter your body. Although Ceramides are produced by our bodies naturally, the body can sometimes run short of them, especially when ageing becomes part of the equation. This ingredient is therefore important in moisturisers to help pick us up where needed. Raspberry Extract has been proven to promote skin hydration and cell protection, as well as provide antioxidant protection when used in skincare. The red extract from the raspberry plant prevents cells from losing excessive water, hence it provides anti-ageing properties, and it prevents dryness. Raspberry Extract can also alleviate direct photo-damage caused by UVB exposure, in turn also protecting against inflammatory responses. It can be used day or night and is a fundamental in skincare. READ: Three easy skincare tips to try that’ll change your beauty routine According to Tumi, smart skincare (and ultimately a smart moisturiser) is vegan, fragrance-free, cruelty-free, cosmeceutical grade and affordable, while never compromising on formulation and ingredient quality. The internet is filled with skincare questionnaires that could give you a rather accurate suggestion as to which skin type you have. Fundamentals Skincare’s website also gives online visitors access to a skincare questionnaire which might help you to identify your skin type.  “It’s all about giving your skin the essentials it needs for good health,” says Tumi. Whether you have problems with acne, ageing skin or sensitive skin, the questionnaire should guide you to identify your skin type and concerns, whereafter you can also opt for a free consultation through an online booking form. Play it smart and choose a moisturiser that suits your skin type.