In this week’s royal news update, Prince Harry is still planning to head to the UK with his family, not only to give the Queen a chance to see her great-grandchildren but to also allow for Archie and Lilibet to meet their cousins, the children of Kate and William.  A cruel prank the Queen’s royal dresser played on her 16 years ago has been revealed, the late Princess Diana’s favourite perfume is available for purchase at a discounted price, and Kate and William are planning to relocate and move to the country.  Angela Kelly, the Queen’s dresser, revealed in her book she once played a prank on the Queen which led to Her Royal Highness shouting, “You are sacked”. Kelly detailed the incident to have occurred in 2006 during the Queen’s royal tour of Australia. She said the Queen was desperate to spot a kookaburra (kingfisher) during the tour, but had no luck in seeing one.  Kelly then said while they were shopping at a market in town, she purchased a cute stuffed toy kookaburra as she had a prank in mind which she would play on Her Royal Highness.  Once they headed back home, the royal dresser placed the toy in a cage, and then called the Queen to come and see the “funny looking grey bird” which she had spotted on her balcony.  Delighted by what she was seeing, the Queen shouted “It’s a kookaburra” and then soon yelled, “No, don’t do that. It will fly away” when Kelly opened the cage.  Kelly then took her prank further and told the Queen the bird was dead, but then soon revealed that it was a stuffed toy all along, and that this was an elaborate April fools prank.  Angela said the Queen jokingly told her she was sacked, and then turned to Prince Philip to tell him about the prank she had played on her.  The late Princess Diana was always seen as a style icon, and she was known for her elegance and grace. The princess also had a wide collection of fragrances for different occasions, but there was one particular perfume she favoured the most. It was revealed that Diana’s favourite fragrance was Queles Fleurs by Houbigant Paris. She loved it so much, she chose to wear it on her wedding day when she married Prince Charles.  The floral fragrance, which comes in a 75ml bottle, features a mixture of tuberose, jasmine, lily of the valley and rose, and is available to shoppers at a discounted price of £75,95 (R1,566) at Allbeauty. ALSO READ: Queen Elizabeth II launches her own line of ketchup The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge may be gearing up to move to the suburbs after it was revealed the couple would like to start a quiet life in the country with their three children. According to the Daily Mail, a source close to Kate and William said the two “will move to Berkshire to start a quiet life in the country” as the couple feels “this stage in their life suburbia makes perfect sense”.  Kate and William have been splitting their time between the Kensington Palace in London, and their country home, Anmer Hall in Norfolk since they tied the knot. A royal source said the move to Berkshire would make more sense for the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge because they would be much closer to Windsor Castle, which is where the Queen resides.  “Anmer Hall made sense while William was a helicopter pilot in East Anglia and it was useful for Christmases at Sandringham, but it doesn’t really work anymore. “It’s a little too far away for weekends, but Windsor is a perfect compromise. They are eyeing up options in the area,” said the royal source.  A source has told UK Weekly the Duke of Sussex is still set on taking a trip to the UK with his wife Meghan Markle and their two children, Archie and Lilibet.  This means he is still in the fight to be given the go-ahead to pay for property security while in the UK.  “Harry has his heart set on returning to the UK to see the Queen with Meghan, Archie and Lilibet, but that will only happen if the government takes the appropriate measures to protect his family. “He refuses to put them at risk. Their safety comes before anything else,” said the source. The source also revealed that as much as Harry would like for his children to see their great-grandmother, Queen Elizabeth II, he would also like for his children to see their cousins and have a good relationship with them.  “Prince Harry and Meghan are doing everything they can to make the world a better place and feel it would be wrong to rob their children of the opportunity of getting to know their cousins. “It’s obviously difficult because of the distance factor, so Harry sweetly organised a special Zoom call with Prince William in order for the cousins to get to see each other,” said the source.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.