Director, rugby wife and mother-of-two Rachel Kolisi may have given birth to prince charming himself, as her son Nicholas pampers her with the help of his little sister.  Taking to social media, the mother bear shared a video of herself getting a spa and pamper treatment from her 4-year-old daughter, Keziah, and her 6-year-old son, Nicholas.  In the video, Kolisi is seen getting her face massaged and moisturised, getting her eyebrows tweezed and plucked, getting her lips glossed with lip-gloss, and also getting her feet massaged.  The video ends off with the mother-of-two enjoying a warm beverage, while her daughter plants a gentle kiss on her cheek.  In the caption of the post, Rachel expressed how kind and caring her son Nicholas is, and how he wished she did not work as much as she does because he would like to spend more time with her.  “Nic is super caring and always kind. Sometimes he tells me he wishes I didn’t have to work all the time, but that he understands, it’s because I want to help lots of people, and so he and the other kids can go to good schools, and eat food everyday,” said Kolisi.  She also said how when she fetches him from school, he asked her how school was and if she is coping with all her homework.  “These days, when I fetch him from school I ask how his day was and he asks me how school was today and if I finding my homework hard,” she adds. Rachel also revealed that when she got back home that evening, Nicholas offered to make her tea and a meal, and then proceeded to pamper her with a spa treatment with the help of his little sister.  “This evening, after we finished with his homework, I was preparing for a talk I have coming up, he came to ask if I wanted tea or anything to eat, I said yes to both and landed up having tea, “smashed boiled eggs” and received an whole spa treatment from him and Kez.  “Which consisted of sunglasses as an eye mask, relaxing music, a foot massage (actually he just dosed my feet with oil), I think a facial? And some kind of back/leg rub. It’s the thought and effort that counts,” said Rachel Kolisi.