Mamelodi Sundowns’ new signing Erwin Saavedra is set to make his much-anticipated arrival in South Africa on Tuesday, with the Bolivian attacker expected to jet into OR Tambo International Airport.  ALSO READ: Mokoena cracker helps Sundowns stroll past ten-man Chippa Downs concluded the signing of the 25-year-old during the transfer window but Phakaaathi understands that Masandawana still need to register him with the Premier Soccer League. Little is known about Saavedra, but his new coach, Rulani Mokwena harbours hopes that he will be a big hit for Downs, particularly in the Caf Champions League – Sundowns begin their group stage campaign on Friday. “The midfielder is a full Bolivian international. He plays in the World Cup qualifiers and he started against Argentina and Brazil. The club has the pulling power to entice that type of player and that speaks about where we are as a club and the magnitude of this institution,” said Mokwena.   “We are excited by the profile of the player, he is a very good player who comes into the team and we are looking forward to inducting him in the team and the processes of the work that we do. Saavedra played for Bolivia in the qualifiers on Tuesday and he then had to work to get all the necessary documents including Covid-19 tests. “He had to travel from Peru and then to the Netherlands, so we are talking about more than 20 hours in transit. He will arrive very late … and when we resume training on Wednesday, he would have just put his feet down in the country. Hopefully he will join us by Thursday and then we will take him in, hopefully we can incorporate him into the matchday squad as quickly as possible,” Mokwena added. Saavedra becomes Sundowns’ fourth foreign player – as Brazilian Ricardo Nascimento has left the club – and Mokwena commended the club’s management for working around the clock behind the scenes to make sure that they acquire the services of high profile players. “We are very patient and excited because this is not just big for Sundowns but it is big for South African football, because if you can bring this type of player to the South African game, the bigger beneficiaries are the South African public – this can only aid the future of the football of this country.“You must understand that trying to negotiate for him to come, given the time difference between South Africa and Bolivia means senior management spent a lot of sleepless night trying to make sure that they concluded this deal,” said Mokwena