The Sharks will travel to Pretoria for their United Rugby Championship derby against the Bulls with two significant advances for their defensive cause having occurred this week. The first is in selection, with coach Sean Everitt announcing on Thursday that captain Lukhanyo Am would move back to outside centre against the Bulls, with Marius Louw coming in to wear the No 12 jersey. It is a widely-speculated move, especially since Am has been so influential in the No 13 jersey for the Springboks and is considered one of the best in the world in that position. ALSO READ: Bouncing back: Four areas where the Sharks must turn it up The other boost to the Sharks’ defence, which was exposed by the Stormers last weekend in Cape Town, has been the presence of Springbok Sevens coach Neil Powell at training this week. “Marius has played well every time he has put on our jersey. We tried Lukhanyo at 12, but Marius has put his hand up and deserves to be selected,” Everitt said. “With the setback of Ben Tapuai’s injury, we kept Lukhanyo at 12 for a couple of weeks from a playmaking perspective, but now he can move back to where he is really comfortable in defence.” Powell will become the Sharks’ official defence coach after the Sevens World Cup in September and was in Durban to familiarise himself with his new home, rather than doing any on-field work. But it would be a surprise if he did not loan some of his expertise to the Sharks on an informal basis. ALSO READ: Mapimpi name SA URC Player of the Month for January “It’s public knowledge that Neil will join us post the Sevens World Cup,” Everitt said, “and defence is his strength, that’s why we have appointed him. “He was on a break and he came up to Durban to get to know the people and learn our system, to which he will bring some different ideas. “He was only here for three days but he’s a really good person with strong values, which has been shown in the Springboks Sevens and their admirable culture, which is something we are strong on too.” In the other changes to the Sharks team, flank Henco Venter comes in for the injured Jeandre Labuschagne and Gerbrandt Grobler replaces Ruben van Heerden at lock. The changes represent some freshening up of the pack after three physically taxing games, with Grobler adding some presence to the tight five and Venter aiming to keep the Bulls quiet at the breakdown. Sharks Aphelele Fassi, Sbu Nkosi, Lukhanyo Am (c), Marius Louw, Makazole Mapimpi, Tito Bonilla, Jaden Hendrikse, Phepsi Buthelezi, Henco Venter, Siya Kolisi, Hyron Andrews, Gerbrandt Grobler, Thomas du Toit (v/c), Bongi Mbonambi, Ox Nche. Replacements – Kerron van Vuuren, Ntuthuko Mchunu, Khutha Mchunu, Ruben van Heerden, Sikhumbuzo Notshe, Grant Williams, Curwin Bosch, Werner Kok.