However way you look at it, both Richards Bay and Mamelodi Sundowns are under some kind of pressure ahead of their Nedbank Cup last 32 tie this evening. The KwaZulu-Natal side, which will host the tie at the Princess Magogo Stadium, have established themselves as giants killers over the years, knocking out premium clubs like Orlando Pirates and Kaizer Chiefs, which puts coach Simo Dladla under pressure to live up to that billing. READ ALSO: Mokoena can’t replace Hlompho Kekana, says MngqithiMeanwhile, Masandawana are the form team season and everybody wants their skull, and Sundowns co-head coach Manqoba Mngqithi does not want the Brazilians to see the ending of this tie linked to the biblical tale of David versus Goliath.“All our preparations are geared towards trying to make sure that we do the best that we can, and play the game and give it all the respect that it deserves. It will not be easy to play against Richards Bay, because they are a team with a lot of pedigree in this tournament, they’ve beaten Pirates and  Chiefs, you must be worried that as such a big team that we don’t get into that history of being another one. It will be a very difficult match [but] all our preparations are geared towards trying to make sure that we do the best that we can,” said Mngqithi.Another factor that could put the spanner in the works for Bafana Ba Style is the motivation or lack thereof. Mngqithi feels his players might put their foot off the pedal a bit, seeing that they are playing a second division side. However, Richards Bay aren’t just any second division side as they sit at the summit of the GladAfrica Championship.“One must fully understand that playing against a team that is currently doing well and are number one in the GladAfrica Championship is not easy. The most difficult matches for me are those where I must be the one motivating the players to go and fight. When I play  Chiefs,  Pirates or SuperSport United, I know that players know that they have to win the match.“In matches where everybody expects you to win, you have to dig a little bit deeper. We have tried to put up a good culture within the team to try and win every match that we play, whether it is a friendly, a practice match, a small-sided game, we are always fighting for a result and that might carry us through.”