Award-winning composer and reality TV star Lebo M has issued a statement in response to a woman named Ashleigh Ogle after she accused his ex-wife’s son of getting violent with her.  A few days ago, Ashleigh shared videos of Angela Ngani-Casara’s son, Mthunzi Ngani trying to break into her home. She went on to claim the videos were taken after Mthunzi violently attacked her in her home, in front of her young daughter, while Angela reportedly looked on.  In his statement, Lebo M claims to be aware of the “historical foundation of Mthunzi’s violence”.  “I would have experienced such in my early first five years of my marriage to his mother Angela.”Lebo M went on to say that Mthunzi’s actions are as a result of the violence he allegedly experienced at Angela’s hands as a child.  “When I was married to Angela, for the initial five years, I experienced more violence in my life than any relationship or marriage prior to Angela.”“I stayed in for as long as I could, with my motivation being the well being of all the children at that time. It was not until Angela violently attacked me while I was sleeping, in the presence of our then two-year-old minor daughter who woke up to Angela’s rage.”  It was this incident that the music composer says led to their first divorce.  He then claims to have reconsidered rebuilding their relationship years later, as seen on his reality show, after hearing of the alleged “desperate upbringing” the children were living through after he evicted Angela from his home.  ALSO READ: Lebo M’s stepson ‘Shogun’ responds todomestic violence claims “Though, contextually confusing to the reality show audience who would have been misled by Angela’s performance throughout the entire season 1 of my show and still are. Angela’s performance was that of an innocent and calm personality while behind the scenes she was desperately trying to provoke me, in order to create a violent reaction as she was planning her exit for the third time,” said Lebo M.  He added that he funded her business, as shown on the show, in an effort to help her get back on her feet so that she would be able to be financially responsible for her children in future.  After highlighting what he considers her many entrepreneurial failures, Lebo M stressed that he focused on Angela in an effort to highlight where Mthunzi’s rage stems from.  “It is very sad and painful to know that I will always be associated with Angela long after I have parted ways with her, while she has successfully hidden her own violence and childhood trauma of her unfortunate upbringing over the years that is now manifesting itself through her son.” He shifted his focus back to Angela in his statement, levelling more accusations against her, including how she manipulated the audience of his reality show into siding with her and how she “destroyed” his relationship with his son Tshepiso.  Lebo M then told Ashleigh that he feels her pain and supports her and prays that her recovery does not go unnoticed.  He also expressed concern for the age gap between Ashleigh and Mthunzi and chalked his concern up to the fact that “Mthunzi was already unstable and had been for many years”. He concluded by stating that there is no excuse for Mthunzi’s behaviour and went on to lament his name being mentioned in headlines of articles regarding the fight between Ashleigh and Mthunzi.  “The scourge of [gender]-based violence in society needs to open the window wider and investigate the abuse some, if not most, of the men committing such crimes against [women], historical context and the role of women and mothers such as Angela,” concluded Lebo M.  The Citizen has reached out to Angela regarding the allegations levelled against her and is currently awaiting a reply. We will share the statement as soon as it becomes available.