Volvo, after the confirming the updated XC60 for South Africa in November last year, has now officially introduced the local line-up, headed by new front-wheel-drive model. Revealed internationally last March, the XC60, which this year enters its fifth of year production, comprises six models lead by the front-paw gripping B5 Momentum. Aside from adopting the same “B” designations as the XC90, exterior changes include a redesigned grille and front bumper, new alloy wheel choices of a selection of new or updated colours. Inside, the more minor tweaks involve Google’s latest Android operating system with over-the-air updates for the Sensus Connect infotainment system, the option of having no leather upholstery and the City Weave textile that famously featured on the long-since discontinued V40 Cross Country. Like its all-wheel-drive sibling, the front-wheel-drive B5 Momentum comes specced as standard with 18-inch alloy wheels, front and rear parking sensors, dual-zone climate control, heated front seats with all chairs trimmed in fabric, a reverse camera and keyless entry. Not divulged until now, the power for the B5 comes from the familiar 2.0-litre Drive-E turbocharged petrol engine, now aided by a 48-volt mild-hybrid system. ALSO READ: Updated Volvo XC60 heading for South Africa Producing 183kW/350Nm, the unit is again mated to an eight-speed Geatronic transmission, the setup resulting in a limited top speed of 180 km/h and 0-100 km/h in seven seconds, 0.3 up on the all-wheel-drive. Higher up, the B5 also powers the upscale R-Design and Inscription, with the latter also having the option of the more powerful B6 unit. In this form, the carryover powertrain has been tweaked to deliver 220kW/420Nm. With the eight-speed ‘box sending the amount of twist to all four wheels as standard, the B6 will sprint from 0-100 km/h in a claimed 6.2 seconds, before also topping out at 180 km/h. As indicated by the range, the XC60 no longer has the option of a diesel engine in lieu of Volvo’s commitment to electrification with the aim of being a completely electric marque by 2030. Unchanged is the warranty with all models being covered by a five-year/100 000 km maintenance plan.