Are you still using your concealer to hide the bags that make your eyes look tired? If so, well, it’s not that you’re a has-been, but let’s just say that you have some serious catching up to do.  On social networks, the trend of the moment is to find alternative uses for cosmetics.  So an eyebrow pencil gets used as lipstick, a lip pencil becomes an eyeshadow, and a concealer morphs into a highlighter. So much more fun, not to mention eco-friendly! We might have thought — probably stupidly — that lip pencils were only intended to outline our mouths and enhance our lips. But TikTok users have quickly understood that cosmetics can have several lives, and just as many uses.  For a few months now, the social network has been an inexhaustible source of tips and tricks, each more original than the next, and all aimed at hijacking cosmetics from their initial functions to transform them into real beauty innovations. If these hacks may seem crazy at first glance, they are no less effective — or so says the TikTok community — but above all, they come with a sustainable slant.  After all, who hasn’t left a mascara, a pencil or a concealer lying around the bathroom for months, because it wasn’t the right shade or it wasn’t that useful?  Now, you might as well avoid waste and find another use for those items sitting on the side of your sink. And that’s where the hacks come in! In the space of just a few weeks, TikTokers switched around the original functions of their lip and brow pencils. Some now use the former to achieve the perfect smoky eye, while others turn to the latter to get the perfect shade of lipstick. It’s hard to follow, we agree, but these tips have already been seen — and adopted — by thousands of users. Not content with hijacking the eyebrow pencil, TikTokers went the extra mile to get the perfect lip colour, by adding a touch of blush — which, of course, is intended for cheeks — before finishing things off with a small dose of gloss.  ALSO READ: Daily hacks: How to keep ‘date night’ interesting in your relationships Incredible, but true! According to its advocates, the whole process helps achieve ultra-glamorous and luscious lips. More so, in any case, than with a mere lipstick. You may not know it, but concealer isn’t just for dark circles and blemishes. That’s far too obvious! In 2022, it gets mixed with other products to brighten your eyes or achieve perfect contouring.  As we said, TikTok users are budding creatives — nothing escapes them, not even the infinite possibilities of concealer.  A few weeks ago, a TikToker revived a beauty hack straight from the 2000s, involving spreading on some white concealer to structure her face and brighten her eyes. The video has gone viral and scored several million views. It followed another ingenuous hit video about the ‘Rainbow Contour,’ a method for achieving a perfect, natural glow without a single touch of foundation.  Concealer, blush, cream bronzers and the likes applied in a rainbow of stripes supposedly deliver the result in just a few minutes, as shown by many contouring aficionados. And, since more is more it seems, TikTokers are tireless in their quest for original hacks, sometimes going to great lengths — and possibly too far — when it comes to presenting new finds.  As a result, several users have had fun hijacking the uses of the jade roller, initially intended to firm up the face and reduce dark circles and wrinkles, by transforming it into a beauty blender.  A trick that proved a hit, since it allows you to enjoy the benefits of the jade roller while applying your foundation with precision. But the craze was short-lived, as this hack requires time and patience. On a different note, one user went so far as to use intimate lubricant as a foundation base, turning it into a very surprising primer.  From this initiative came a host of videos in which users raved about the results, showing off their radiant complexions.  However, some products should probably not be diverted from their primary functions. And this is undoubtedly the case of lube, which isn’t really intended for the face. In the end, there’s nothing better than a good old foundation to hide the minor imperfections that bother you day today.