As they prepare to face the Sharks in a vital United Rugby Championship derby at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday, the Bulls’ focus seems to not be so much on the way they play but the speed with which they execute their plans. Sluggish would be one of the words to describe their grinding 21-13 win over the Lions last weekend, and it is clear coach Jake White has instructed his team to lift their intensity and therefore their pace of play when they take on the Sharks. ALSO READ: In-form Stormers setting the pace among SA’s URC teams “We will take some confidence from the Lions game, but it is clear we still have a lot to learn. It was a very slow game and we need to work on our breakdown,” said scrumhalf Embrose Papier. “It’s going to be a tough game and a big physical battle against the Sharks because they are a really good side with a lot of Springboks, but as scrumhalves we have to be really fast. Our forwards do too, they need to set quickly because the Sharks scrumhalves like to snipe as well. “We have taken quite a few positives out of the Lions game but there’s also been a lot to work on. It was a slow game, but when teams come up to Loftus and the altitude here, we must lift the tempo so we make it hard, especially for teams from the coast.” ALSO READ: Springbok fixtures for 2022 confirmed Apart from injecting more speed into his service from the breakdown, Papier has also been putting plenty of work into his kicking game with consultant Fourie du Preez, the great former Springbok scrumhalf. “I just played running rugby at Garsfontein school, and at U-19s and U-21s, but I made lots of mistakes and that’s why coaches devise plans, so I play more in the system now and I can still do my own thing in the system,” he said. “I’ve been trying different styles of box-kicks and I now feel comfortable with the way I’m kicking. I need to do the basics right and stay in the system, get the balance right between passing and kicking. “Fourie is a legend with lots of experience and I am learning a lot with him. We work a lot on passing, kicking and running lines. Fourie was one of the best ever at those and he also had a big work-rate.”