The Jones’s fairy tale marriage has come to what seems like an abrupt halt on Tuesday afternoon. Actress and model Minnie Dlamini shattered South Africans’ hearts when she announced in an official statement that she and her husband, television producer Quinton Jones, have filed for divorce. The couple met in 2010 while working at Urban Brew Studios where they became good friends. They didn’t start dating immediately as the were never single at the same time. However, it didn’t take long for destiny to align their paths. Dlamini and Jones were married on 8 July 2017 in a stunning traditional wedding at Glen Hills in northern Durban, KwaZulu-Natal. A white wedding at Lourensford Wine Estate in Somerset West followed on 16 September 2017. South Africans rejoiced and couldn’t get enough of the perfect couple – everyone wanted to be like the Jones’s. The couple share a son together, Netha Makhosini Jones, after Minnie’s late brother Khosini, who died in 2019. Dlamini and Jones celebrated their son’s first birthday on 16 November 2021 at the Jaguar Land Rover Experience in Lonehill, Sandton. ALSO SEE: PICS: Lerato Kganyago’s husband shuts down Valentine’s Day with his gift (again) While Minnie’s Instagram timeline has been void of any recent photos of Mr Jones, we can’t help but wonder who the magnificent display of red roses were from on Valentine’s Day which she shared on her Instagram stories on Monday 14 February. We assumed that it was Mr Jones who spoiled his wife, but according to Minnie’s statement they are no longer romantically involved. Dlamini said that after months of separation and consultations with their family and a counsellor, they have taken the decision to officially file for divorce. “Despite our better efforts to absorb the changes in motion, the emotional burden and the post-traumatic distress of our individual loss outweighed our will,” she said in the statement. She added that they will remain friends, business partners and loving parents to their beautiful son and asked for their privacy to be respected during this difficult time.