You might have forgotten about the rumour that South African hip hop rappers Kiernan “AKA” Forbes and Nadia Nakai Kandava are in a relationship, but Nadia has taken the time to remind you with a recent Instagram post.  Taking to her Instagram story, the Bragga rapper posted a video of herself bonding and spending some time with an adorable Boston terrier which looks exactly like AKA’s dog, King Louie the 13th Forbes.  In the video posted on her story, Nadia was heard telling Louie that he is starting to become obsessed with her, and the dog was even seen grabbing Nadia’s arm when she tried to pull away from him.  The video has now expired from the rappers Instagram story.  The pair sparked dating rumours at the end of last year, during the festive season, when she was gifted a Rolex timepiece from her “secret Santa” which resembled the exact same timepiece which AKA had bought for his late fiancé, Anele “Nellie” Tembe.  “Secret Santa said it’s gonna be an icy Christmas,” said Nadia in the caption of her post. They both also went on vacation, and even though it has not been confirmed that they were together, the pictures which the two posted from their vacation appear to be from the same location. ALSO READ: Did AKA take his new girlfriend on his annual baecation? In the caption of one of AKA’s vacation posts, he refers to himself as “secret Santa”, the same person who might have gifted Nadia the expensive Christmas present.   Taking to social media, a Twitter user named Musa Khawula also shared a screenshot of a picture of Nadia which AKA had posted on his personal Instagram account, but had later deleted.  The Naaa Meaan artist took to Twitter on 1 February to announce that she would be taking a break from social media to live in the real world.  “Taking a break from socials and living in real life for a bit. Will be back,” said the rapper.  Seven days later she retuned back to social media to share with her fans and followers that she was wearing her boyfriends t-shirt over her own.