Life as a television presenter and supermodel can undoubtedly become chaotic quite quickly, limiting the time you have available to spend at the gym. Minki van der Westhuizen doesn’t allow that to get in the way of getting her steps in, though. The mother of three recently shared a video of herself lunging all the way onto set, ensuring that she works out those glutes. And, she did it in style, wearing a fashionable green jumpsuit and heels for the filming of one of the episodes of her VIA programme, MINKI. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. In the video, the person behind the camera laughingly asks Minki what she’s doing. “I’m exercising,” Minki says, explaining that she doesn’t have time to exercise. “That’s how hard I am working,” Minki says. “Desperate times call for desperate measures,” she wrote in her post, with the hashtags implying that set life can be rather hectic at times and that you often need to plan the rest of your priorities around life on set. Clearly, Minki’s exercising tactics work too. When you look back on the holiday and beach photos the television personality shared over the festive season, it is evident that she manages to fit in her daily exercise despite a very busy schedule. Whether it is in a yellow bikini with frilly shoulders or a full black swimsuit, Minki van der Westhuizen’s lunges sure deliver when it comes to a toned body. READ: Minki van der Westhuizen’s five kitchen must-haves for 2022 She posed on the cover of Huisgenoot last year, looking sensual and fabulous in a soft yellow bikini, proving that even as a mom of three, you can still look amazing if you look after yourself. Apart from being a mother, wife and television presenter for her own show, Minki van der Westhuizen currently keeps herself busy with various influencer campaigns and collaborations, including her recent contract with Catrice and another with Smeg South Africa.