The task of reimagining or adapting a long-standing brand can be a tall order, especially in times when things are changing at a rapid pace. Decorex Africa is one such brand adapting to the times after enjoying a long-standing position as a leader in décor, design and lifestyle trends for 30 years.Now, the brand is transitioning itself into a marketplace and a “growth accelerator.” To lay out their plans and explain how they plan to “reimagine” Decorex Africa, they hosted a media event in Aurum restaurant, Sandton, on 3 February.  Michael Leslie, the group portfolio director, said the Covid-19 pandemic gave them an opportunity to reflect on the type of impact they wanted to have as a business and as people. From that, they found a completely different perspective and the value they should be providing to the consumer, clients and the industry.  One of the few big announcements was that for the first time, Decorex Joburg and 100% Design South Africa will take place at the Sandton Convention Centre, moving away from Gallagher Estate.  100% Design SA is the largest contemporary design exhibition. Leslie said the move in location is their intent to show they will be producing higher quality shows and to “bring back design to the Sandton precinct.” The changes include showcasing more talent from designers across the African continent with a more pan African approach. Decorex Africa will be returning to their roots of curation as a tool for innovation. This will be led by Keneilwe Motoa and Bielle Bellingham as a way for the brand to introduce new talent and invite new collaborations.   The curate tools will look to address specific gaps in the market, its desires and the endless opportunities it presents. Design publications are still an important factor in the space and House and Leisure will be one of their media partners.  The company will host more events and summits to further celebrate exhibitors and excite people who enjoy the decor and design space.  People will get to see this adaptation in the next couple of months, Decorex Africa and 100% Design South Africa will be hosted in Cape Town International Convention Centre from 16 – 19 June 2022 and at the Sandton Convention Centre in Joburg from 28 to 31 July 2022.