It was not quite the giant-killing scenario that most football lovers anticipated when Richards Bay hosted Mamelodi Sundowns in the last-32 on Friday evening as they succumbed 4-0 to a well-oiled Masandawana machine.ALSO READ: Nedbank Cup bitter-sweet for Chiefs’ Bvuma Peter Shalulile got the cherry on top in the dying moments of the game but the defending champions got the advantage in the first half, courtesy of a Bradley Ralani goal. The 34-young midfield wizard proved why he is worthy of a contract at Sundowns after his switch from Cape Town City was questioned by many who could not figure out why Manqoba Mngqithi and Rulani Mokoena recruited him. Ralani’s goal was created by Thabiso Kutumela, who fired a shot at Malcom Jacobs and the goalie parried on to the alley of the highly alert Ralani and he netted for Masandawana on his debut. The second goal came from an unlikely source as defender Rushine De Reuck headed home in the 53rd minute. Kutumela – who was withdrawn just after the hour-mark – was again involved in the making of the goal as he swung in a high ball from the corner flag to find De Reuck in mid-air. The hosts were not totally outplayed as they made a couple of attempts at Kennedy Mweene such as in the hour mark when Vusimuzi Mngomezulu fancied his luck from range, testing Mweene but the veteran shot-stopper was up to the task. Sundowns mentors introduced Teboho Mokoena in the 61st minute, giving the 25-year-old his debut after he signed from crosstown rivals SuperSport United. Mokoena was deployed deep in midfield alongside skipper Andile Jali as Rivaldo Coetzee made way. In the 67th minute, Khuliso Mudau found himself face-to-face with Jacobs, but the right-back, who does not have a striker’s instinct, tried to sneak the ball through the legs of Jacobs who had the near-post covered and anticipated a shot through his legs and did ever-so-well to apply the stop. Minutes later Man-of-the-Match Mudau decided to turn the provider with a pin-point cross that found Pavol Safranko. It took the Slovakian about 10 minutes to make an imprint in the game after he came off the bench. The lanky striker then asked to be withdrawn within five minutes from full-time. He limped off in some discomfort, signaling what could be an ankle injury. The Brazilians will resume their DStv Premiership title defence this coming Monday when they host a wounded Chippa United side who lost to the University of Pretoria on Friday. The Chilli Boys did not have a good day in the office in the capital city as they were brought to their knees by the AmaTuks at the Tuks Stadium. Chippa became the first casualty of being beaten by a lower division side as goals from Kamogelo Pheeane and Lulama Maqoko inspired Tuks to a 2-0 win.