South African darling Minki van der Westhuizen is known for her golden locks, big, bright smile and glistening eyes, but, there are few things that make a girl’s eyes glisten as much as the results of a successful haircut. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Just a couple of days ago, Minki shared a photo of herself and her husband, Ernst Joubert out on a date. Her hair was combed back elegantly, complemented with a pair of gold earrings. A fan commented saying that Minki’s hair looks a lot like “Cameron Diaz hair.”  Soon after, Minki had her hair chopped, and now fans and celebs alike are in love with her new look. The supermodel, mom, and television presenter recently posed playfully in a photo which she shared on social media, looking flamboyant and fun with a brand-new hairstyle that fits her glowing personality perfectly. The choppy bob shows off her neck and shoulders and is probably one of the best haircuts to get just as autumn starts winking. Alette Winckler commented that Minki’s hair looks beautiful short, while Caroline Brussow simply said “Yasssss girl.”  A little shorter than normal, the mother of three captioned her picture: “Short hair, don’t care.”   READ: Minki exercises on set ’cause that’s how supermodels roll In a post that Minki shared on her Instagram earlier on Friday, she looks glamorous in a mustard dress with her hair brushed sideways, coupled with simple, yet elegant earrings that bring the look full circle.  It also serves as demonstration of a different styling technique for the shorter bob. Whether its wild curls or elegantly straightened and combed sideways, this choppy bob is a safe bet if you’re looking for a new, yet fashionable style for a new season. Minki has always been one to follow when it comes to the latest fashion trends and styles, and her new hairstyle is proof. The model and style icon was definitely born to stand out.