Sharks coach Sean Everitt said the United Rugby Championship standings were so closely contested that he regretted his team did not put the 14-man Bulls away properly, instead allowing them two log points, while saluting the determination his side showed in defence. The Bulls looked ripe for the taking at Loftus Versfeld as flyhalf Morne Steyn was red-carded for a late, high hit on Lukhanyo Am’s neck, and the Sharks surged into a 14-0 lead after half-an-hour. But the Bulls fought back and actually dominated for long stretches of the game, forcing the Sharks to defend manfully in their 22. Especially after they had scrumhalf Grant Williams sent off permanently for a high hit on Steyn’s replacement, Chris Smith, who also left the field due to his head injury. ALSO READ: Jake White ‘proud’ of Bulls for staying in the fight The Bulls had more than enough chances to snatch a remarkable victory, but eventually went down 29-22, with bonus points for four tries and losing by seven points in consolation. “The log is so closely contested, so every point counts,” Everitt said. “We will enjoy this win – we haven’t beaten the Bulls at Loftus for quite some time – but there are obviously work-ons. “But the character the guys showed was unbelievable, just keeping the Bulls out although they had 11 opportunities inside our 22 by half-time. So we showed great resolve and pride.” One player who was faultlessly accurate was captain Lukhanyo Am, who produced two massive individual moments when he claimed a restart just after the Bulls had scored and dashed down the touchline before grubbering and regathering to score in the last play of the first half. His brilliant turnover when the Sharks were leading just 26-22 then won the penalty that was the final play of the match. Everitt was unequivocal in describing Am as the best outside centre in the world. “The skill he showed at the end and the try he scored just before half-time: He makes magic, he just gets it right every time,” Everitt said. “His try took the wind out of the Bulls’ sails – to score and then immediately concede again. Lukhanyo is just an unbelievable player, making better decisions and executing better with age. “I am totally convinced that we do have the best outside centre in the world in him.”