Just after a week of announcing her pregnancy, BET breaks hosts Nomalanga Shozi and her boyfriend Major League DJ boyfriend Bandile seem to have bagged a BET Africa reality show. Nomalanga Shozi is a South African actress, radio DJ and TV Personality.  She has previously appeared on the South African soapie Rhythm City and MTV Shuga: Alone Together. Nomalanga also worked for Gagasi FM for a number of years.  The BET Africa host recently shocked everyone when she took to Instagram to share a “magazine cover” lookalike picture to announce her pregnancy. Mzanzi celebrities such as Bonang, Cassper Nyovest, Ayanda Thabethe – who also recently announced her own pregnancy – congratulated Nomalanga.  Because Nomalanga has been incredibly private about her love life, fans were left wondering who her partner was after the announcement.  She later revealed that she was dating one of the Major League DJs twins Bandile Mbere in such a casual way. Through a series of posts shared to the official BET Africa social media accounts.  Bandile Mbere is part of the highly popular Major League DJ duo (alongside his twin brother, Banele. The pair started out in the hip hop industry and have since taken the proudly South African genre of Amapiano international along with a number of popular South African Amapiano acts. In the videos shared by BET Africa, ‘The Flame’ as known to her fans and friends, accidentally revealed that she’s expecting a baby girl during her speech at her baby shower.  “And our baby is happy, ‘she’s’ been kicking since the speeches have started”, she blurted out to a table of people like Banele, Cassper Nyovest, Ayanda Thabethe, Tshego Koke, Uncle Vinny and the couple’s other friends. “First of all I’d like to thank BET for putting this together and I know it wasn’t easy”, Nomalanga said.   According to the caption under one of the videos “#BecomingTheRents” is coming soon to the channel.  Details about the show have not yet been released, however, they will be shared in due course. Now that “The Flame” will be going on maternity leave, BET Breaks found itself in need of a new host and on Friday evening it was announced that Naledi “Leddy G” Radebe would be taking over from Nomalanga.  Naledi is a Cape Town-born creative who is well-known for her travel and lifestyle content as well as her captivating style. She made her TV and social media debut as a runner-up on MTV’s Base VJ search alongside Nomuzi Mabena and Nomzamo Mbatha. She has since appeared in major soapies, reality shows, and news specials, as well as lending her signature tone to voice-overs. In addition to being a magazine contributor, Naledi is the co-founder, model, and stylist of fashion platform @them.two, as well as the host of her own celebrity IGTV program, ‘What’s the Tea?’.  The powers that be at BET Africa consider her a “purveyor of all things culture” and they are happy to welcome her back to the ViacomCBS family.  Additional reporting by Kaunda Selisho