A good sex scene is hard to come by in South African television.  This is due, in large part, to the very conservative nature of the audience, leaving producers, directors and actors little to no wiggle room to get on-screen intimacy right.  However, The Wife season two has cemented itself as the latest in a series of locally produced shows and films that are set to change that.  The Citizen joined a select group of guests at The Greenhouse Bar in Sandton over the weekend to watch the first few episodes of The Wife season two.As promised at the show’s inception, each of the first three seasons would focus on the first three novels in the Hlomu book series. Season one has just wrapped up and now, Hlomu (Mbalenhle Mavimbela) will become more of a supporting character while Zandile (Khanyi Mbau) slides comfortably into the driver’s seat.  Season two picks up where season one left off, with Hlomu and Qhawe (Kwenzo Ngcobo) having betrayed Mqhele.  Their transgression is quickly forgotten (by the audience) however as Zandile and Nkosana (Mondli Makhoba) steam up the screen.  Speaking to The Citizen about the nature of their relationship, Mondli makes it very clear that viewers will not be witnessing what went down between Hlomu and Mqhele.  “When you look at uNkosana noZandile, it’s warm, there’s love there. And yes, there will be challenges in the family but they will try and work that out.”  There is a lot about the first two episodes that makes it clear that viewers have entered into a new era of The Wife with season two.The first is the new title sequence that features different imagery from the first along with Khanyi Mbau’s face front and centre.  While I cannot share what the second difference is, just know that it sets a dark, yet exciting tone for The Wife season two.“The mood of season two, as someone who is an avid follower of the show… it’s gotten darker. It now has a villain, where the Majola brothers were more of the villains, now we have a new villain but it’s for you to watch to find out who the villain is,” teases new fan-favourite Khanyi Mbau.  ALSO READ: Khanyi Mbau is ready to take on role of Zandile in ‘The Wife’ Zandile and Nkosana aren’t the only ones who will be bringing the heat this season. Ladies across Southern Africa will also get to enjoy seeing a lot more of Qhawe’s physique in its most natural form.Though there has been some backlash about the shape of the show thus far sparked by arguments over what exactly “inspired by” means, it seems safe to say that the adaptation has won the audience over.  The Wife season two kicks off on Thursday 17 February and will return to a “three episodes a week” format. READ NEXT: ‘The Wife’ – ‘Hlomu is turning into Brooke Logan’