The South African Weather Service issued an extreme heat wave advisory for the Western Cape, effective until 8pm on Tuesday, 1 February 2022.  Here’s what you need to know.  The weather service warns of extremely hot conditions over the Drakenstein and Stellenbosch regions in the Western Cape, with temperatures reaching around 40 degrees Celcius.  “Along with the generally hot weather, heatwave conditions are also expected,” Saws said in a statement. The following areas will be affected on Tuesday:  The conditions are so extreme, it may lead to hyperthermia as the body’s ability to cool through sweating is reduced when temperatures are “extremely high”.  Residents could also suffer heatstroke if precautions aren’t taken; heatstroke could be fatal if not treated properly.  Heatstroke occurs when the body becomes unable to control its temperature. The rapidly rising temperature causes the sweating mechanism to fail. Symptoms of heatstroke include cramps, nausea, dizziness vomiting, fainting, and seizures. Residents are advised to stay hydrated and keep out of direct sunlight.  Limit participation in outdoor activities if possible, wear appropriate clothing, and don’t forget to use sunscreen. Ensure pets have cold water and a cool place to hide from the heat.  Remember: pets can suffer heat exhaustion or sudden death from cardiac arrhythmias – an irregular heartbeat which occurs when the electrical signals coordinating the heart’s beats don’t work properly.  If your pet is disorientated, collapses, vomits, or displays bright red or blue gums, wet them with water before taking them to the vet.  The vet may administer cool IV fluids, or insert a breathing tube to stimulate artificial ventilation. Depending on the severity of symptoms, controlling seizures may also be needed.  The Western Cape had been ravaged by fires since December, however, the end is not yet in sight.  As per the weather service, the heatwave conditions could contribute to veld fires, especially in drought-stricken regions where vegetation is dried out. Meanwhile, Level 2 warning were issued for severe thunderstorms in Northern Cape, which may result in localised flooding of roads, as well as difficult driving conditions. NOW READ: Level 2 warning issued for severe thunderstorms in Northern Cape