Rosko Specman is set to be unleashed on the Currie Cup as he returns from injury to slot straight into the Cheetahs starting line-up to face the Bulls at Loftus on Wednesday. It is a massive early competition clash (kick-off at 5.45pm) as the impressive Bulls have already made a statement after winning their opening two matches with bonus points to top the early season log, and with captain Cornal Hendricks leading the side again, it is set to be a cracking match-up. The Cheetahs won their opening fixture against Griquas before having a bye in the second round, and they will be eager to pick up where they left off and put in a big showing against the Bulls by laying a platform with the forwards for their exciting backline to attack. ALSO READ: Fourie ‘excited’ as injured Cheetahs return for Bulls clash “We have a really good backline and we’ve worked hard on the set-piece during the last two weeks. We have really good options to play from on Wednesday and I’m confident that we’ll get our share of line-out and scrum ball,” said Cheetahs coach Hawies Fourie. “If we can manage that, we can test the Bulls defence with our backs, so it will be a team effort. I’m excited to see what we can do.” Fourie was also happy that teams such as the Bulls and Sharks were allowing a number of their top players to take part in the competition, despite having URC duties as well. ALSO READ: Smal picks strong Bulls team for Currie Cup clash with Cheetahs “It is very good for the competition to have these well known and big-name players playing in the Currie Cup. It will contribute to a very interesting competition,” said Fourie. “Especially with the Sharks and the Bulls, as they have a lot of quality and depth in their squads, so they’re not just fielding youngsters and U-20s. The Pumas and Griquas also have really strong teams, so it is going to make for a very interesting competition.” In other matches on Wednesday, Griquas host the Pumas in Kimberley at 3.30pm, and the Sharks take on Western Province in Durban at 8pm. The Pumas and Western Province have each won one and lost one so far, while the Sharks and Griquas have played once, with the Sharks winning their match and the Griquas losing theirs, so all the teams will be eager to pick up points.