The Proteas need a massive improvement on day two of the first Test against New Zealand at Hagley Oval in Christchurch after a dismal first day saw them behind by 21 runs with the hosts still holding seven wickets in hand in their second innings. The visitors were put in to bat on a green pitch which was perfect for bowling and were absolutely dismantled by pace bowler Matt Henry who returned career best figures of 7/23 to help bowl them all out for 95 at tea. The hosts then replied with 116/3 during the days final session to take full control of the match, however the Proteas could have been a lot closer after dropping four catches during the Black Caps innings. In the post-play presser Proteas paceman Duanne Olivier was asked if he thought it was a 95-run pitch, but he chose to focus on the positives with a lot of cricket still to be played. “To be honest it wasn’t really (a 95-run pitch). As a team collective it wasn’t our best day at the office but tomorrow is another day, we are still in the game and there is so much cricket still to be played,” said Olivier. “So I think we come back tomorrow, we know what we did wrong and we know where we can improve. “At the end of the day there were still some positives and if we can take those and stick to our strengths and the way we play I think we can get ourselves into a good position.” ALSO READ: Disastrous opening day for Proteas against Black Caps Poor fielding has unfortunately become a bit of a habit for the Proteas in recent times, which is bitterly disappointing after they were once known as the best fielding team in the world for many years. The first culprit in New Zealand’s innings was Marco Jansen who dropped a simple chance at gully, which robbed debutant Glenton Stuurman of getting his first Test wicket. Zubayr Hamza then dropped a tricky chance at third slip, going one handed but he still should have held on, while Temba Bavuma, one of the best fielders in the side, dropped a low chance which he got both hands to at backward point. Another safe pair of hands, Rassie van der Dussen, then dropped a chance at silly-mid on, with him not able to get his hands properly to the ball after it was deflected at him, with all these chances visibly deflating the team during the match. “Unfortunately putting four catches down is not nice and it’s a massive ask to come back from that,” admitted Olivier. “As a bowler you always feel frustrated, but at the end of the day we are a team and guys don’t do it on purpose. It’s how we come back tomorrow that’s important, the South African way is about showing character and fighting back.” Olivier still believed the SA team had a chance if they could get off to a good start on day two. “We are a bit behind the eight ball, we only scored 95 batting first, but we can still bowl them out for 180,” said Olivier. “Cricket’s a funny game, today might belong to them but tomorrow can be our day, so I think it’s just sticking to what we have done well recently against India and sticking to our DNA and our game plan.” For Black Caps quick Henry, who is not a regular starter for the team, he was thrilled with how play went on the day and admitted that winning the toss was a big moment in how it all unfolded. “When you win a toss like that you want to get out there and do the job, but we knew we had to put the ball in the right areas, so it came off for us,” said Henry. “I found out I was playing yesterday, but I have been playing a lot of cricket domestically and have been involved in the squad for a while now too. “So it was great to get the nod and obviously playing here at my home ground of Hagley, I was really excited to have my friends and family here too.”