As the world remains captivated by the story of The Tinder Swindler on Netflix, 947 radio host Anele Mdoda had the opportunity to get more information directly from one of the women who exposed the famous swindler.  The recent crime documentary shows interviews of three women who were either befriended by or got into a romantic relationship with a man named Simon Leviev, born Shimon Yehuda Hayut, from Israel.  The story depicts how Simon conned these women in a similar fashion. They swipe right on a well-dressed, good-looking man, go on an amazing date that quickly becomes a serious relationship. He woos them with his charm, so-called riches and constant affection.  He claims to be the son of a diamond tycoon. However, he is often in need of quick cash, using the now-infamous phrases “Peter is down”, and “my enemies are after me, send money”.  He reportedly swindled an estimated $10 million (R150 million) from several people which he used for luxury hotel stays, trips around the world, buying supercars and luxury items. Some of the women who appear in the film exposing the fraudster are Cecilie Fjellhoy, Pernilla Sjoholm and Ayleen Charlotte.  Speaking on the Breakfast Club on 947, with Anele, Pernilla from Sweden says the reaction to their documentary took them by surprise, as did the sudden fame.  When asked who she would like to portray her in a possible film on The Tinder Swindler, Pernilla said Jennifer Lawrence is her preference.  The conversation quickly went down to business, as she revealed that the first time Simon asked her for money was eight months into their friendship, the two were never romantic.  “He and his entire team must have thought I was sitting on millions because they went all in for such a long time to do all of this, just to defraud me in the end,” she told the 947 host.  Pernilla also told Anele that she suspects this impression of wealth must have come from her Instagram account as she shared her holiday pictures and the appearance of the good life, similar to how Simon used the app to portray a “wealthy” lifestyle.  “On social media, we always show off the good things,” she said.   She also said Simon was cunning, particularly with how he would make women feel comfortable and safe. She went on to explain that she thinks he achieved this through his projected caring manner.  “He would always call you, check on you and one time he literally got on a flight because I told him I had a bad day. Six hours later he was in Stockholm having coffee with me because I had a bad day.” She considered this a form of brainwashing because everything they thought was real, wasn’t, “everything was a lie”. Anele asked why she was never intimate with Simon, and her answer was simple. He was never her type.  “He was too short, he didn’t have the looks I look for.”  Cecilie, another Tinder Swindler star, was the one intimate with him and Anele asked a question that was on everyone’s mind: was Simon good in bed?  Pernilla laughed throughout her non-answer and said she couldn’t answer that, as only Cecilie could reveal that. However, she did a hand gesture, a thumbs up that he was. What didn’t appear in the Tinder Swindler doccie was the fact Simon had women on his team who helped the fraudster continue his ways. Pernilla says this was disappointing as she believes women should stick together in these situations.  The effects of being defrauded out of so much money has had a lasting impact.  “I am less trusting with people, I don’t want him to take my entire life, he has taken so much already but I want to be a person who can laugh about these things,” added Pernilla.    The women also revealed that they have started their own podcast, speaking on their experience and giving information that was not revealed on the doccie. They still have their 9-5 jobs and added that they are hoping something good will come out of this because there are people and companies, who owe banks thousands in loans, unknowingly paying for Simon’s luxury lifestyle.  Pernilla concluded by saying that there is nothing Simon can say to her.  “He is so sick, and I wouldn’t want my money back because it would come from fraud. It would mean someone went through hell. I don’t want anyone to get hurt.”  Simon has since been banned from Tinder and deactivated his account on Instagram. A number of fake accounts pretending to be him have sprung up in the interim.