What appeared at first as an amicable divorce, is no longer the case between Kim Kardashian- West and her estranged husband Kanye “Ye” West, as they take their battle online.  Kanye set yet another firestorm when he posted on Instagram that he’s not happy that his eldest child, North West has a TikTok account.  “Since this is my first divorce I need to know what I should do about my daughter being put on TikTok against my will?” he wrote.  North has a joint account with her mother, which has over 5 million followers on TikTok.  YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: There will be no new episodes of ‘The Wife’ next week Over the past several weeks, Kanye has used social media and interviews to express his disdain over what he claims is Kim’s attempt to block him from seeing his children.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Kim has had enough of Kanye antics, making their family matters very public. In a statement released on her Instagram stories, it read:  “Kanye’s constant attacks on me in interviews and on social media is actually more hurtful than any TikTok North might create. “As the parent who is the main provider and caregiver for our children, I am doing my best to protect our daughter while also allowing her to express her creativity in the medium that she wishes with adult supervision.” Kim went on to say divorce is difficult enough for their children and “Kanye’s obsession with trying to control and manipulate our situation so negatively and publicly is only causing further pain for all.” Kanye lashed out and responded by questioning what Kim meant when she said she was the “main provider”.  “What do you mean by [the] main provider,” he wrote on his Instagram account.  The former couple has four kids together and the recent co-parenting fallout was for Chicago’s fourth birthday party. “America saw you try to kidnap my daughter on her birthday by not providing the address. You put security on me inside of the house to play with my son then accused me of stealing. “I had to take a drug test after Chicago’s party cause you accused me of being on drugs, Tracy Romulus stop manipulating Kim to be this way…” Ye claimed.  RELATED: Did Kanye West lie about being kept away from daughter’s birthday party? Kim has not responded to Kanye’s latest claims but Twitter users think the two need to deal with their family issues privately. The former couple has moved on, Kanye is currently seeing Julia Fox and Kim is with comedian Pete Davidson. It is no secret how Kanye feels about Kim’s new relationship, the rapper even mentioned his dislikening of Pete in his latest song Easy.