EFF leader Julius Malema has always shown his love and admiration for his wife Mantwa Malema and the couple have shared many sweet moments over the years.  The couple tied the knot in 2014 and welcomed their first child in 2016.  Julius has consistently shared his love for his wife in many ways on social media. Mantwa, on the other hand, is much more private and is reportedly an accountant.  The couple celebrated their seven-year anniversary on 27 December 2021. Julius thanked his family and friends for helping make their relationship solid.  “Today we are celebrating seven years as a married couple. The boys’ mother is steering the ship, and we are her passengers. “Love you my babe, exciting seven years, and we are still going strong because our friends and family are supportive,” he wrote on Instagram. The politician knows how to celebrate his wife during big moments or celebrations. This was no different on the most romantic time of the year – Valentines Day.  On 14 February 2022, he shared pictures of their romantic dinner date, which may have been in the comfort of their home.  Julius writes heartful messages honouring his wife every year. Mantwa celebrated her birthday on 29 January and Julius wished her a very special day.  “You are extraordinary to the boys and me. I will, on behalf of all four of us, make sure you have a lovely day. Happy birthday to the love of my life, and a good mother of the boys. Love you too much,” he wrote last week.   In 2021, Julius affectionately shared:  “Today I celebrate the opportunity to cuddle with you, to share a bed with you every evening, and most importantly to be your parenting partner of the boys in marriage. “These are memories I cherish and will do so forever. Happy birthday Mma go Bašimane.“ As a well-known politician and public figure, Julius is always out and about attending campaigns, events, invitational dinners and weddings.  It is therefore easy to see why his beautiful wife is by his side during these moments.  Mantwa and Julius Malema have two sons together – three-year-old Kopano, and their firstborn Munzhedzi.  Julius has a third child from a previous relationship, Ratanang Malema, who was born in 2006.  NOW WATCH: EFF marches to demand opening of stadiums