The Sasol League National Playoffs kicked off with some exciting football, with the opening three games producing 19 goals at the King Zwelithini Stadium in Umlazi, Durban on Tuesday. Ixias FC from Free State began the proceedings as they played to a 1-1 draw with Limpopo club Copperbelts Ladies FC. Koketso Koko opened the scoring for Copper Belts just before half-time, but Ixias bounced back stronger in the second half and they were able to find the equaliser thanks to skipper Dimakatso Seitlheko, leaving the two teams to share the spoils in Group C. While Ixias will be taking a break tomorrow, Copperbelt will lock horns with the home side LIndelani Ladies in search of their three points of the competition. In the second game of the day, TS Galaxy Ladies FC and De’ Scorpion of North West also shared the spoils. It was Galaxy ladies who would go on to have a brilliant start into the match after Rennika Khoza put the team in the lead with a wonder free-kick from just outside the box in the first half. The Rockets Ladies, however, went on to surrender the lead after some beautiful play by the club from North West earned them an equaliser late in the game courtesy of Elizabeth Gagani. Following a disappointing score-line in the two games, the last match would produce some fireworks, with City Lads from the Eastern Cape thrashing Northern Cape’s Royal Wizards 12-3. Onelisa Nanasele was the star of the show for City Lads, with the midfielder scoring a double brace for her team, while Nwabisa Kolisi found the back of the net twice as well as Nosipiwo Bottoman, while Andisiwe Ndesi, Pumeza Vimbi, Nandipha Booi and Ayanda Njongweni scored a goal each to see their team start the tournament with a confidence boosting score-line. Meanwhile, Precious Lebona scored a brace for Wizards, while Nosipho Khomari scored one, but they weren’t able to stop the free-scoring City lads from emerging as comfortable winners. Wednesday fixtures: Tswelelang De’Scorpion v Croesus Ladies FC Royal Wizards v Vacsco da Gama Ladies Copperbelt Ladies FC v Lindelani Ladies FC