Celebrating her second son’s second birthday yesterday, Miss World 2014 Rolene Strauss took to Instagram, marking the special occasion with a couple of precious pictures. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. “You are two years old today,” she lovingly wrote in a caption to a carousel of pictures that encompass the love she shares with her little curly head and his brother, Charl. She also said that she, her husband D’Niel and their toddler’s 5-year-old brother love him so much. “You just have a lust for life, always help where you can and often spoil me with kisses and hugs,” she continued in her post, concluding with: “We are grateful for you.” The carousel of pictures covers a whole range of special moments between Rolene and her sons. In one picture, she is sitting on her youngest’s bed, throwing him up in the air – a recipe for laughter in a little one. In another, the two brothers are sitting on their mother’s lap while she smiles at them with tender love and care. There is also a photo in which her now two-year-old is happily cuddling with his mom on the couch while holding his bottle. It was just before the initial announcement of the Covid-19 lockdown that Rolene and D’Niel Strauss welcomed their second-born into the world in 2020.  “Our healthy boy of 4.4kg was born on the 10th of February at 23:46. We are extremely blessed to both be healthy, happy and enjoying endless cuddles,” boy-mom Rolene Strauss wrote. She calls their youngest the gentle giant of their family, and also the littlest one with the biggest heart and while she is continuously on a quest to accept her own curly head, Rolene Strauss often also shares photos of her youngest’s cute blonde curls. READ: How to get bouncy curls like Rolene Strauss If you look at the photos of the beauty queen when she was a toddler, there is no doubt that this little curly head is Rolene Strauss’ son.