What is currently going on in the world affects interior design trends and how you design your space in ways you may not even think about.  According to PG Bison, a local manufacturer of wood-based products, in 2022, interior design trends continue to show the ripple effects of the wider events affecting the world, from Covid-19 to climate change.  These are six of the biggest trends in bedroom design for the coming year according to PG Bison.  “Your bedroom is your sanctuary – where you sleep, dream, prepare for your day and enjoy privacy and peace.  Covid-19 saw people spending more time at home and rewired the way we thought about our spaces,” said Jason Wells, Brand and Marketing Manager at PG Bison. “From creating home workspaces, or homework areas for children, to investing in more comfortable beds. One of the trends that came out of this and is expected to continue into 2022 is designing for comfort.” Think luxurious textiles and bedding, plush pillows and comforting accessories, such as scented candles, photos of loved ones, and favourite, beloved objects.This also means supersized headboards are on-trend in interior design, whether they are panelled, upholstered or even painted onto the wall. Biophilia is about embracing nature and bringing elements of it indoors. It has been a trend in architecture and interior design over the past few years and continues to grow. You can do this through the use of natural materials or nature-inspired designs as well as through incorporating plant life, maximising natural light, or embracing natural ventilation.  ALSO READ: Three bedroom cleaning hacks you should know According to Wells, this trend is reflected in lighting, colour palettes (greens, browns and autumnal colours), artwork choice, incorporating house plants, and design inspired by natural forms in bedroom decor.  “Curved shapes that emulate nature and fractal patterns are very on-trend currently, and we’re seeing many people opting for natural-look materials, as well as embracing botanicals and botanically-inspired colours,” added Wells.  PG Bison explains a fractal pattern is where a shape is repeated over and over, at different scales.  While designers tend to advise that spaces like bathrooms and kitchens should be kept fairly neutral, a bedroom is a more personal space.  There’s room to show personality and experiment with interior design. “People are experimenting with bold patterns, colours, textures and wallpapers. A survey from The Company Store on 2022’s trends found that a quarter of respondents under 40 were choosing bold patterns for their bedrooms.” Wells also said that there is a steady growth in DIY design and 2022 is likely to see more people experimenting with stencils, wallpaper, decals, paint effects and changing up their soft furnishings as they enjoy the opportunity to make their space their own. He advises mixing and matching furniture. So, instead of one matching bedroom suite and/or pattern, let your personality shine through by co-ordinating different but complementary designs shapes and patterns.  “For example, we’re seeing designers opting for a neutral or pastel colour and accenting it with a wood-grain or stone-finish design, as well as mixing matt, peen and gloss finish.” Covid-19 saw a huge uptick in multifunctional spaces and furniture as more people found themselves working from home.  This trend has, to some degree, continued in 2022.  “In the bedroom, it might mean including a desk, vanity or dressing area with plug points for chargers and a desk lamp, whether in your own bedroom or in your guest room.  This can be used for both working and getting ready. When making your interior design purchases, invest in quality cabinetry for adequate storage so that work clutter or your accessories can be packed away neatly after use. Tapping into the trend towards luxury and personalisation is the trend towards panelled walls and cabinets. This modern update on a nostalgic look is being used on walls, in lieu of headboards, and on cupboards. Wells says that panelling adds a sense of luxury to a room and can range from a subtle design feature to an eye-catching statement feature.  “We’re seeing panelling used as a decorative feature in bedrooms, living areas and even offices. Some people are opting for a traditional look, like board and batten MDF panels on walls or vertical slats, and others have completely modernised the idea, using geometric shapes or asymmetrical designs.” With boards now available in such realistic designs, homeowners and interior designers are able to select panelling options in matching, contrasting or natural material finishes, such as wood grains or even aged metal. “Consumers are becoming more aware of how their purchasing decisions may affect everything from their carbon footprint to the local economy and are adapting their buying behaviour accordingly,” said Wells.  “There’s a move to supporting local designers and manufacturers and to more mindful design that takes into account ideas of long-term sustainability.” This is also reflected in a revival in the market for vintage or second-hand furniture, handmade décor and crafts, DIY products and locally sourced and manufactured raw materials. Compiled by Kaunda Selisho READ NEXT: How Decorex Africa is ‘reimagining’ their 30-year brand