South Africans were left shook when Royal AM chairman Andile Mpisane announced his engagement to Tamia Louw in December last year. The sudden engagement and wedding in the same week left the streets of social media mystified as to his relationship with the mother of his two children, Sithelo Shozi. Andile and Shozi welcomed their second baby together last year – a girl named Likuwe “Coco” Mpisane. Their older daughter, Flo, turned 1 in May. The shotgun wedding had tongues wagging that Tamia could be pregnant, and that this was the reason for the sudden marriage.   ALSO READ: Andile Mpisane takes back baby mama Sithelo Shozi’s BMW – report While rumours about the pregnancy were rife on social media since the couple’s union in December, nothing had been confirmed by the family – until today. The 25-year-old social media influencer, model and content creator took to her Instagram account on Sunday afternoon to announce the news of her pregnancy. “Dear BabyOh how I can’t wait to meet you. One day when you get to see this, I want you to know just how precious you are to me. From the moment I knew about you, I fell insanely in love with you.“You are my first baby and this new chapter is going to be a learning curve for both of us. But I promise to give YOU the best of me. I’m not perfect but my love for you is and will forever be perfect.“May God watch over you and protect you. May his love and grace be the guiding force for our journey ahead.All my love,Mom.” The message accompanied two black and white photos of Tamia wearing a sheer white flowing gown, cradling her baby bump. Her mother-in-law, Shauwn Mkhize, better known as MaMkhize, was one of the first to congratulate the new parents. “Ncoooah I’m so happy for you guys. Being a parent is not easy but I’m confident in you and @andilempisane10 to be great parents together. Siyabonga Makoti.” Andile also took to the comments to congratulate his wife. “This is beautiful my love I know you’re going to be an amazing mom and I can’t wait every moment of it I love you Mama we Khanya.”