On Thursday evening’s episode of the Real Housewives of Durban, Thobile MaKhumalo Mseleku hosted an exclusive black-tie dinner for husbands and special friends, but when she sent out the invites, she kept it a secret that her and husband, Musa Mseleku were the hosts of the event. When they showed up late to the event, the housewives were shocked and underwhelmed to find out that they had gathered for an event hosted by Thobile, and they were even more annoyed that they had to wait so long for the couple to make their dramatic entrance.  The black-tie event saw a lot of tension among the housewives as the topic of polygamy and cheating was prominent in their conversations throughout the evening.  Nonku Williams shook the dinner table when she made the statement that every man cheats or has cheated at some time in their life, and then stressed the narrative that black men generally cheat, while white men usually spend money on sex workers if they are looking to cheat.  RELATED:RHODurban: Was Thobile worth the wait? Nonku’s statement rubbed Jojo Robinson the wrong way, and she told her to keep quiet if she has nothing better to say than passing offensive comments and statements.  Viewers on Twitter were divided by the incident which took place between Nonku and Jojo, as most of them felt that Nonku’s statement was actually the truth and that if Jojo was secure in her marriage she would not have been affected at all.  Later on in the episode, Jojo and Noku went quad biking, where they got the chance to unpack and discuss the incident which took place between them at the dinner.  Robinson expressed that she was highly offended by Nonku’s statement, and Nonku explained that she did not mean to offend anybody and that she was just sharing her own opinion based on her life experiences.  ALSO READ: RHOD’s Nonku responds to cyberbullies – ‘Enough is enough’ Jojo then shared details about her past marriage with Williams and revealed that she too has had the experience of being married to an abusive partner.  The latest episode of the Real Housewives of Durban also saw Londiwe Zulu meeting Mabusi Seme, a businesswoman who is well acquainted with the other cast members of the reality television show. Upon meeting each other, Mabusi asked Londie who she was married to, and Londie said that she was Theminkosi Nkosi’s fiancé.  Mabusi replied that she was well aware of who her husband was because she knows him from “the streets” (implying he is a cheater).   During LaConco’s interview session, she pointed out how unnecessary Mabusi’s comment was, because she it implied that Thembinkosi has the reputation of being a ladies man.  The episode ended off with a scene that saw Londie, Annie and Nonku meeting up for a dinner date.  Annie revealed to Londi that she was irritated with the fact that everyone was speaking isiZulu at the dinner table, knowing very well that she and Jojo do not speak, nor understand the language.  When Williams arrived, she revealed that she had invited her mother to dinner to clear out any misunderstandings which may have arisen during their last encounter which left some housewives upset.  Londie and Annie raised the issue that Nonku’s mother referred to them as dumb women, but Nonku as well as her mother claim that she did not say that, and would never offend them in that manner.  During Nonku’s interview session, she said that Londie sucks up to Annie and supports Annie in whatever she has to say.