Lerato Kganyago wants her money from big local sneaker company Bathu and the media personality is reportedly taking them to court to get it.  Kganyago was one of the influencers for the local sneaker brand which has several stores around the county. The radio host and DJ was reportedly cut due to budget constraints from Bathu, the Sunday World reported.  The Bridge host used her agency Alchemy Consult to send a letter demanding an outstanding R315,000 of the reported R600,000 she was promised for her role as brand ambassador.  The document was leaked to the tabloid and in communication with Bathu founder Theo Baloyi, it reads that he appointed Kganyago as a brand ambassador on a 12-month contract from March 2021. READ NEXT: DJ Citi Lyts has died after being shot eight times Her contractual agreement included her to DJ at 60% of Bathu official store openings. According to the agreement,  Bathu was to arrange DJ equipment of her choosing for these openings.   The travel expenses were covered by Bathu and a total of R600,000 was agreed upon. The publication reported that Bathu had paid Kganyago R285,000, R185,000 and R35,000 in separate transactions in a space of three months.  When Kganyago enquired about the remaining amount she was told, to her surprise, that her contract had been terminated due to budget constraints.  The company representative informed her of this in November 2021. “As a business, we have had to cut back on expenses and we have had to terminate numerous contracts with some of our valuable stakeholders such as Ms Lerato Kganyago,” the document read.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Kganyago was told the remaining R315,000 was going to be paid and a proof of payment was going to be sent. However, months later she still hasn’t been paid.  Bathu was given a deadline of 11 am on 19 January 2022 to pay the outstanding amount but missed it, and this is the reason Kganyago is taking legal action.  The Citizen has reached out to Kganyago’s agency for comment and is still waiting for a response. Attempts to reach Baloyi through calls and text messages have been unsuccessful so far.