It’s that time of the year again, where “love is in the air”, and if you’re looking for a special night out there are plenty of Valentine’s Day specials to spoil your partner in terms of food.  The joys and mass marketing of Valentine’s Day have received massive pushback in recent years but for some couples, this is still a special occasion.  In the last two years there have been many at-home dinner dates but taking up a notch this year, restaurants are back with their special Valentine’s Day menus.  It is no secret we love this Asian fusion restaurant in the heart of Sandton, as we have visited it a few times. Riding on the coattails of its successful opening in May 2021, Tang Sandton has become a top restaurant for its authentic Asian menu.  ALSO READ: Dan Nicholl’s wine show gets a face lift Tang’s Valentine’s Day menu special has an option for lunch and dinner.  Menu: Starters are a pick between rock shrimp, tuna takai, pork belly, robata octopus or dim sum. Main options include half Peking duck, Angus fillet or tofu wok with citrus soy and sesame. Bookings are essential.  Take a look at the full menu below: Another new spot that has blossomed in the city of gold is Radisson RED in Rosebank. Perfectly situated in Rosebank’s business district and residential area, the hotel’s restaurant, OUI Bar & KTCHN is a great mix for all.  Their Valentine’s Day menu is between 6pm-9pm on the 14th. As Valentine’s Day is on a Monday, they are hosting a “Lover’s Lunch” on Sunday 13 February.  Menu: Topless oysters dressed in a sundried tomato and chilli pesto, the menu is a pick between beef short rib, chicken galantine and creamed spinach three-cheese fettuccine. There is also a “Happy Ending platter” for two, which has fruit and cheesecake.  Price: R490 The special is not just for couples, everybody is welcome. To add a more romantic feel is an acoustic performance from Will Rayz.  The Radisson hotel group has other specials for couples. They include a romantic one-night stay and dinner at their OR Tambo location in Kempton Park. The chic and vibey Proud Mary has received a stamp of approval from Johannesburg foodies since it opened its door late last year.  The three-course menu is extensive and as an added bonus it comes with a complimentary glass of G.H.MUMM champagne.  Price: R500 per person  This is not even a budget buster if you are based in KwaZulu-Natal or want to take a trip down to the coast, the Wild Coast Sun Resort is offering an ideal Valentine’s breakaway that’s too good to pass up.  Located by the ocean, a river, a lagoon and 750 hectares of lush indigenous bush between Port Edward, the resort is on the border between KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape provinces. The resort’s Chico’s Restaurant offers Valentines Day weekend specials to choose from. A dinner on February 12 at R249 per person, lunch on February 13 at R149 per person or, on February 14, dinner from R249 per person, with a complimentary welcome drink.  For sporty couples, a Valentine’s Golf Day on 13 February is fantastic to get the competitive juices flowing. Priced at R400, per player, click here to find out more. On the eve of Valentine’s Day, this wine estate in Stellenbosch is celebrating the day of love with a musical concert, food and the perfect pairing of cheese and wine.  Price: R895 per couple What the ticket includes:  It is advised you bring a picnic blanket and low back chairs. For more information, click here.