Former Banyana Banyana goalkeeper Roxanne Barker and her Vasco da Gama teammates sealed their spot in the semi-finals of the Sasol League National Championship after edging City Lads Ladies 3-1 at the King Zwelithini Stadium on Thursday. City Lads, who had a brilliant start into the tournament following a massive 12-3 victory against Royal Wizards, seemed to be not a match for the Western Cape based Vasco. This was Vasco’s second victory of the tournament after they also smashed Wizards 8-1 in Group C. Chantay Norris broke the deadlock for the Western Cape outfit, but City Lads would respond with an equaliser by Onelisa Nanasele to make the game even. But, the Western Cape club, with Barker playing as an in-field player had a different attitude in the second half, with their intentions to kill off the game very clear from the start of the last 45 minutes. It was the magic of Miche Minnies who will go on to inspire Vasco to victory, with her pace and skill being too difficult to handle by City Lads players. Minnie went on to score two beautiful goals, taking the minimal crowd of other teams, media, sponsors and other dignitaries off their seats and clapping hands for her incredible performance. The fight for a spot in the last four became very intense in the second game, which saw the home side Lindelani Ladies FC clashing with Ixias FC from the Free State. It was a very competitive match between the sides, with the tie bringing out the best of Ixias keeper Motlahosebatho Phiri, who managed to pull some great saves in the early moments of the first half. But, Lindelani would be able to go past her in the second half, as former Bantwana and current Basetsana player Zethembiso Vilakazi scored a brace, while Ixias’s goal came through an own-goal by Lungelo Msweli. Meanwhile, the last game of the day saw Gauteng champions Croesus Ladies FC taking Mpumalanga based outfit TS Galaxy Ladies. The closely contested clash saw Croesus defeating the club from Mpumalanga by 2-0 courtesy of goals by Lerato Makhanyana and Mpho Rammala to seal their spot in the semi-finals. Semi-final fixtures for Friday: Lindelani Ladies FC v City Lads FC Croesus Ladies v Vasco da Gama Ladies