After reaching the amazing milestone of marking her 70th-year reign as the monarch of Britain, Queen Elizabeth II is on a mission to fulfil all her life’s dreams as an entrepreneur and businesswoman.  Bang Showbizrecently reported that dog lovers will soon be able to spray their furry best friends with perfume as the royal family member will be releasing her own dog cologne named ” Happy Hounds God Cologne”.  The cologne is described as possessing the scents of “coastal walks”, and also a “rich, musky scent with citrus notes of Bergamot”. ALSO READ: Royal news: Kate and William to start quiet country life, Harry to return to UK The cologne will be available to canine lovers for $13.53 (R203,33) in the gift shop situated inside Sandringham house, the Queen’s estate in Norfolk, England.  On their website, the Sandringham gift shop has labelled the perfume as “the ideal present for dog lovers and their furry friends”. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. To celebrate Queen Elizabeth II marking her 70 year reign, she has also released her very own bottle of bubbly, Buckingham Palace English Sparkling Wine, which comes from the Royal Collection Trust, a charitable department of the Royal Household “responsible for the care of the Royal Collection and manages the public opening of the official residences of the Queen”. According to Food & Wine, the sparkling wine is a blend of Chardonnay, Pinot Noir, and Pinot Meunier grapes which are grown in Kent and West Sussex. An announcement from the Royal Collection Trust describes the wine as having “enticing aromas of rich and honeyed citrus fruit, white peach and hints of sweet spice”. Earlier this year, The Sun reported that the royal family matriarch will be releasing her own ketchup sauce, as well as brown sauce.  The Queen’s ketchup is said to be “ideal for breakfast or any time of the day”, while the brown sauce is apparently “packed with vinegar and spices”.