Disturbing information and videos have been shared online depicting well-known composer and TV personality Lebohang “Lebo M” Morake’s stepson Mthunzi “Shogun” Ngani breaking into his ex-girlfriend’s home.  The video was shared by Twitter entertainment blogger Musa Khawula.  The video shows Shogun violently trying to open his former partner and the mother of his child, Ashleigh Ogle’s sliding door. Ashleigh originally shared these videos on her Instagram account.  Shogun appeared on his stepfather, Lebo M’s reality show with his mother, Angela Ngani-Casara and his sister.  Ashleigh writes that Shogun allegedly hurt himself when he tried to break in. She can be heard in the video shouting, “what do you want” to Shogun.  ALSO READ: Monique Muller responds to Katlego Maboe’s statement She explains that Shogun’s mother and sister arrived at her home, went to her bedroom, locked themselves in, and told her not to come in. “When I asked him to leave, he got in my face and I fell on my bed and he got on top of me while his mother watched him hold me down and that’s where I got the wound, I was trying to get away.” Ashleigh released a statement, making further claims that her belongings were vandalised during the incident and said she fought back to defend herself and her daughter.  Ashleigh said she is no longer associated with Shogun, referring to him as a “woman and child abuser.”  She also added that people told her not to expose her real feelings on social media but she now knows she deserves better.  “No matter how badly he treats you, he believes that your voice shouldn’t rise and your blood shouldn’t boil. The privilege of rage is reserved for him alone… “Abuse can make you feel straitjacketed. You may develop physical or emotional reactions to swallowing your anger, such as depression, nightmares, emotional numbing, or eating and sleeping problems, which your partner may use as an excuse to belittle you further or make you feel crazy. “I was happy once,” she wrote. Shogun released his own statement on his Instagram account, confirming their breakup. The artist said he is on a seven-day journey towards “healing” and the “pain” from the spilt but did not explicitly apologise.  “You were my rock you helped me in my darkest times and experienced all my blessings. It’s heartbreaking to see how much damage we have caused each other all I ever wanted was to see you become everything I saw you to be. “We were not the most orthodox relationship but God knows damn well we tried very hard. We both don’t deserve this. You will forever be a part of my heart and memories and I’ll carry myself in the manner in which you saw me. “Ashleigh you are a beautiful and wonderful person but just as good as it can be is as bad and bitter as it can be. Everyone is saying handle the situation like this and that [doesn’t] say this don’t say that.  “Well, ima saying it out loud just to see how it feels. I love you I appreciate you. You deserve a man, not a boy growing into a man.” Shogun’s mother Ngani-Casara and Lebo M had an on-and-off relationship for 12 years.  They first got married in 2008 and split five years later. They later remarried but divorced again in 2017 and officially split in 2021.  RELATED: Eighth time lucky? Meet Pretty Samuels, Lebo M’s soon-to-be new wife