The closest friends and family of the late Nomakula ‘Kuli’ Roberts gathered at the the Birchwood Hotel in Johannesburg this morning for a special memorial in celebration of her life. The ceremony was hosted by South African comedian Nina Hastie, as well as social and political activist Shaka Sisulu, who happen to be Kuli’s former co-hosts on SABC3’s reality television show Trending SA.  Shaka announced at the beginning of the ceremony the decorations of the ceremony were sponsored by True Love Magazine, the publication she worked for as a journalist for a few years. A group of Nomakula’s high school friends took to the podium to open up the tributes and speak on the life and times of the radio personality. One of her friends said that growing up, Roberts was extremely confident, caring and giving.  ALSO READ: Kuli Roberts remembered as an honest, irreverent trailblazer The other mentioned how she would fondly be remembered by all the lives Kuli touched, while the other expressed that she believes the television personality achieved everything she came to do here on earth.  Sonia Motaung also took to the podium to share some memories she had with Kuli while working with her at Sunday World. Sonia explained that when Roberts arrived at the publication, she was given her own blog called Bitch’s Brew, which was supposed to run for a period of four weeks.  Once the four weeks was up, the journalist was awarded the blog for a long-term period, which she excelled in for many years.  Radio personality and comedian Skhumba Hlophe also shared a few words on Roberts, who he used to occasionally work with on a segment on the popular radio station Kaya FM alongside Bob Mabena.  Skhumba mentioned his admiration for how Nomakula lived truthfully throughout her life, and did not care about the opinions of others, and advised all the guests who attended the memorial service to live a carefree and honest life, which mirrored the life of the media personality.  South African model and entertainer Refilwe Modiselle then took the podium to talk about the mother and daughter relationship which she and Roberts shared since she was 9 years old.  Modiselle expressed that Kuli approached her and commented on how beautiful she was, and eventually grew to love her and have a close bond with her, which made her feel like she was basically adopted by the television personality.  Refilwe spoke on how strongly Roberts felt about albinism, and how she fought to protect and speak up for the albinism community, which meant the world to Refiloe as a woman living with albinism.  Nomakula’s estranged husband, Beyers Roberts was the first family member to share a few words on the late radio presenter.  Beyers shared how caring and loving his ex wife wife, and how she would always come home with gifts for himself and their children when she went out and saw things which would remind her of them.  Roberts thanked Khuli for memories they shared in their marriage, and thanked her for the love she had for her family.  Ringo Madlingozi opened his tribute by sharing the funny memories he had of Roberts who would treat him as her younger brother, when in fact he is much older than her.  He then sang one of his popular songs to bid Kuli farewell, and then asked her to rest in eternal peace as she will be missed by all of her loved ones.  The media personality’s sister and children also took to the podium to share a tribute for Roberts. Nomakula’s sister spoke on behalf of herself, her sisters children, as well as their brother who could not make it to the memorial service. Nomakula’s uncle thanked all the parties involved in putting the memorial service together, and also thanked all of Kuli’s loved ones for sharing their memories with the family, and helping them understand their daughter in a greater and joyous light.  The television personality passed away last week Wednesday after collapsing just before a radio interview.  She was an activist for albinism and the queer community, and left her mark as a fashion and beauty journalist, before becoming an editor for several publications.  The mother of two later entered the television scene as a presenter, before following her dreams of becoming an actress.  Roberts was known for co-hosting SABC2’s reality television show What Not To Wear, as a presenter and commentator on SABC3’s talk show Trending SA, as well as the television presenter on SABC1’s gossip and lifestyle show, The Real Goboza.  The actress also recently starred as “Tina” in a Netflix film titled Angelina, which follows the story of a former parking attendant who is diagnosed with a fatal disease, putting her dream of travelling the world into action.