Demi-Leigh Tebow and husband Tim have been exploring the world during their latest travels en route to the annual Night to Shine 2022 event – a worldwide prom for people with special needs, hosted by the Tim Tebow Foundation. Their first stop was Egypt, where the former Miss Universe spotted a décor gem that she clearly just had to have. Among various ornaments and colourful lights, she sniffed out the perfect decorative jug for their home. It has the most exquisite detail and would look lovely as a feature piece in either a living room or the foyer. In her Instagram carousel, she also posted a picture of her holding a beautiful, colourful bowl – its patterns unique to that part of the world. ALSO READ: Demi-Leigh Tebow and husband building home for abandoned babies in Joburg Demi-Leigh looked boho-chic in a maroon leather jacket, with a matching skirt and leopard-print boots, coupled with large gold earrings and a bulky bracelet while exploring the streets of Egypt and one can’t help but wonder what other souvenirs she will be taking home after their travels. In a second post about their Egypt visit, Demi-Leigh wore a lovely white cotton slit dress with rugged, checkered boots, coupled with a tan leather jacket with knitted sleeve detail and a matching headband. Even hubby Tim matched her look with black trousers and a white shirt, and so did the pyramids behind them, echoing the tan colour of Demi-Leigh’s jacket. From Egypt, the celebrity couple went to Uganda, where they visited the Tebow Okoa Philippi Campus yesterday – a joint venture between the Tim Tebow Foundation and Okoa Refuge, which is a safe place for trafficked and exploited women to receive long-term restoration, trauma informed counselling and holistic healing. They might be exploring the world, but it seems that Demi-Leigh is also fond of being at home with Tim and their dog-children. That is probably why she likes to return home from her travels with a souvenir that she can use to make her house a home filled with memories from their travels together.