Thembinkosi Lorch’s return to his best form is key for Orlando Pirates, says co-coach Mandla Ncikazi ahead of their opening group stages match in the Confederation Cup against JS Saoura at the Orlando Stadium on Sunday. READ ALSO: Orlando Pirates on the hunt for new goalkeeper Lorch spent a lot of time on the sidelines due to injuries last year and Ncikazi reckons the winger’s presence in the team makes all the other players around him confident having recovered and working on getting back to full fitness. “Lorch is a top player, when I arrived here he was injured, I am only seeing him now after the injury and you can see that he is developing and he is getting better with each game, that is why we are giving him more minutes in each match. Lorch, he is a game decider, even in the training match we played, players have so much confidence around him,” said the Bucs co-coach. “So we are looking at a lot of things to happen around him, a lot of expectations from him. History is behind him, and he is one of those special players that any team would love to have.” The Soweto giants go into their continental tie with Saoura after securing a spot in the last 16 round of the Nedbank Cup after defeating AmaZulu FC 1-0. Playing a DStv Premiership in the 32 teams tournament which include the GladAfrica Championship and ABC Motsepe League teams, Ncikazi says it was good for them to play Usuthu, so that they can see where they are as a team.  “Playing a team that plays in the PSL (meeting AmaZulu in the Nedbank Cup), at least you get an idea of where you are in terms of fitness, in terms of where we want to be going. There are really positives from the match, you wouldn’t read much if we were playing a team from the ABC Motsepe league,” he added. “We want to build from this, there is a tougher fixture that is coming ahead of us, we have to prepare for Caf, we have to prepare for a league match against Golden Arrows on the 16th of February. So for one, it gave us a measure of where we are standing, there is a lot of work that needs to be done, but I am happy we are where we are right now.”