Here is your daily news update. Click on the links below for the full story or visit our home page for the latest news. The judiciary is besieged by fraudulent court orders emanating from the country’s court operations, Judge President of the Gauteng Division of the High Court Dunstan Mlambo said on Thursday. Mlambo is the third of four candidates being interviewed for the chief justice position. Outlining his vision for the country’s judiciary, he said he found out that it operated in a toxic environment and was attacked on a number of fronts. Mlambo said the integrity and independence of the judiciary was attacked as a result of a polarised political space. The JCC had found that Mogoeng involved himself in political controversy by commenting on, criticising and proposing changes to the official policy of the South African Government towards Israel and also participated in an extra-judicial activity that is incompatible with confidence in or the impartiality or independence of Judges, by expressing a view on the diplomatic relations between South Africa and Israel. In response, Mogoeng lodged an appeal, which was dismissed. Now he has apologised as ordered. The 2022 Census kicks off from today until March, the third conducted since 1994.  From homeless people to communal living quarters such as hotels, B&Bs, correctional facilities and old age homes, citizens and foreign nationals are included in the countrywide count.  This year is the first digital population count as well, which allows people to participate without the assistance of a census fieldworker.  It also means the census will potentially reach more people in all settlements.  After a census, Statistics South Africa (Stats SA) will conduct an independent post-enumeration survey (PES) in selected areas, from March to April.  The Competition Commission is charging Wesbank and Toyota Financial Services for collusion after an investigation revealed they allegedly agreed to divide markets by allocating customers and suppliers. This is illegal in terms of the Competition Act. The commission has referred motor vehicle finance institutions FirstRand Bank Limited, Wesbank and Toyota Financial Services South Africa Limited to the Competition Tribunal for prosecution on allegations of dividing the market. The motor vehicle finance market includes vehicle finance, leases and dealership financing. The Department of Higher Education and Training has proposed a 4.23% tuition fee increase for the 2022 academic year, and a maximum of 6.23% for accommodation, at universities across the country.  Higher Education, Science and Innovation minister Blade Nzimande said during a Post School Education and Training (PSET) sector media briefing on Tuesday the increases were agreed upon as part of a social compact that has been in place since 2016.  “Since 2016, we have worked together with the sector on inflation-linked increases to ensure that fee increases remain affordable. “In this regard, for the 2022 academic year, a CPI [Consumer Price Index] increase, to a maximum of 4.23% for tuition fees and CPI+2%, to a maximum of 6.23% on accommodation fees, has been proposed,” Nzimande said.