There will be a bonanza of rugby at Loftus Versfeld this week, with the Bulls taking on the Free State Cheetahs in a Currie Cup game on Wednesday before hosting a United Rugby Championship Jukskei derby against the Lions on Saturday. And, if the players’ comments at Monday’s press conferences are to be believed, they don’t know yet whether they will be playing in the Currie Cup, the URC or both, with the Bulls set to name their team to play the Cheetahs on Tuesday. For some players, it may be a bit unsettling, but centre Harold Vorster is one of the Bulls who is quite happy with the dual squad arrangement. ALSO READ: Bulls bag bonus point win after outplaying Lions in Joburg “It’s a difficult thing running both a URC and a Currie Cup team at the same time, but we’re enjoying it, and it doesn’t matter which one you play in,” Vorster said. “I don’t care which team I’m in. When you get a chance, you’re just excited to play. “Your opportunity can come at any time of the week, especially with Covid, and you need to be on the same page as everyone else whether you’re playing Currie Cup or URC.” Of course, the last time the Bulls played at Loftus Versfeld, they let slip a 26-18 lead with 12 minutes remaining to lose 30-26 to the Stormers, a maiden defeat at home with Jake White as coach. It left a sour taste in the month and the Bulls produced an impressive performance in response last weekend against the Lions at Ellis Park. ALSO READ: ‘We just weren’t good enough’: Lions flanker Jaco Kriel Now it is the Lions who travel to Pretoria eager to erase the hurt from their previous outing. “The Stormers game was a big disappointment, but fortunately we got another opportunity to fix what went wrong against the Lions” Vorster said. “Our focus was just on getting back on track and being the best we can be. We put the Lions under a lot of pressure and executed very well. “I don’t think the Lions lack anything. They’re still a very good side, it’s a fresh week, and Saturday is gone and over. “I’m sure the Lions will prepare very well and we’ll have to set new standards for ourselves.”