One of South Africa’s top soapies Getroud Met Rugby is coming to an end after five seasons.  Multichoice made the announcement on Friday and said the sports soapie will stop airing from September 2022 on Kyknet, DStv channel 144.  “This very difficult decision was taken after careful consideration and thorough research. After consultation with the producers, kykNET offered a six-month extension of the current contract.  “This extension of the production contract for another 55 episodes will give the Getroud met Rugby team an opportunity to plan their future, which we hope will include another kykNET production,” the statement read.  Waldimar Pelser, director of kykNET Channels said the decision was based on the changes in television formats and landscapes.  ALSO READ: PICS: ‘Getroud met Rugby’ actors celebrate their 10th wedding anniversary “But these changes also bring new opportunities and new stories. kykNET thanks Deon Opperman, Overberg Productions and every actor and member of the production team who contributed to the remarkable success of this truly original South African series,” he added.  Multichoice also took the decision last year to cancel daily soapie Legacy on M-Net.  Getroud met Rugby has won several awards in television categories. First airing on 7 April 2009 as a drama series, it centres around the story of the fictional world of the Stryders rugby team and fictional local pub, Potties.  Because of its success, it was decided in 2016 to turn it into a daily soap with famous appearances from Afrikaans musicians and actors.  Opperman, the co-creator, writer and producer concluded: “Getroud Met Rugby has been an enormous part of my life as writer and producer for the past 14 years, initially with the five Getroud Met Rugby drama series’ and afterwards with the soapie. I’m deeply thankful to kykNET for making everything possible.” Filming of the final episodes will start in July, and the final episode will air on kykNET (DStv channel 144) on 30 September 2022. Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele