The past two years’ unpredictability and uncertainty had South Africans’ stress levels shoot through the roof. In fact, SA citizens’ stress levels are said to have increased by 56%. While we can’t necessarily change our circumstances, it is within our reach to manage our reactions, no matter how difficult it might seem.  If you’d like to relieve tension and regain control in your life, these four daily routines might help you to achieve exactly that. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. In the long run, a healthy and balanced diet is something you should aspire to, to help your body cope with stress and its side effects.  A balanced diet helps to lower oxidation and inflammation, and it assists in weight loss, while also providing a stable and strong, long-lasting foundation for your body. This daily routine tip is something that cannot be stressed enough (excuse the pun). A good night’s sleep helps you deal with daily stresses more effectively.  When you’re tired, chances are that you lack patience and get upset more easily, which evidently leads to even more stress in your life.  The average adult needs about eight hours of sleep per night. Mental health has been a buzzword for many months now, and it’s gained momentum once again this week, following the untimely and tragic death of former Miss USA, Cheslie Kryst.  In a time when human contact has been limited, many people’s mental health have taken a hard knock.  Talking about your feelings with someone you trust – whether it’s via Skype, Zoom or a phone call – might help you cope better in difficult situations and circumstances. When things don’t go as planned, we often become overwhelmed. When things are too much for you to handle, don’t be afraid (or too proud) to ask for help. READ: Zozi speaks out after the passing of her former roommate Not everyone is keen on experimenting with CBD, but it has proved time and again that it helps to relieve stress.  CBD reportedly alleviates symptoms associated with stress and may even improve sleep disturbances that are associated with stress. ADCO CBD has a product range specifically formulated with a variety of ingredients that work together to help improve your health and wellness.  The range includes a general daily CBD, ADCO CBD STRESS (which comes in drops and capsules) and a product for pain, which comes in both drops and gel form. These are all natural and manageable daily routines to invest in this year if you are keen on maintaining, managing and protecting your health and wellness while navigating through the unpredictability of this thing we call life.