Clear your schedule and set your reminders for Netflix’s first African reality show, Young, Famous & African, set to grace your screens on 18 March. This glitzy reality series aka real-life soap opera follows a group of young, affluent and famous A-list media personalities, with the likes of South African rapper Nadia Nakai, 2Baba and Andile Ncube. Netflix announced that Young, Famous & African will be available globally at the same time to more than 214 million subscribers in over 190 countries on the day of premiere. The seven-episode reality show is produced by Urban Brew Studios, along with executive producers Martin Asare Amankwa and Peace Hyde. “It’s really exciting to be able to show the world an exclusive look into the lives of Africa’s top celebrities and socialites.  “Young, Famous & African is a depiction of a world that has never been seen before, highlighting authentic stories and unrivalled access to some of the most celebrated celebrities,” Asare Amankwa said. With an unapologetically African cast, viewers should expect this unscripted series to have them glued to their screens as new friendships and romantic connections will be formed. The long awaited answers to the controversies the African stars have found themselves in will be spilled, so get your popcorn ready.     Your favourite A-list personalities from all over the African continent will give viewers the best in-class entertainment with an inside look into their top-tier lives. The young and famous cast consists of: Khanyi Mbau  Khanyisile Mbau, commonly known as Khanyi Mbau, is a renowned South African actress, social media personality, socialite, TV host, and artist, with more than 3.2 million followers on Khanyi Mbau Instagram page. However, being in the spotlight for nearly 14 years does not mean that everyone knows everything about her life. This glamorous reality series will allow viewers to get to know Khanyi better. Diamond Platnumz  Nasibu Abdul Juma Issack, popularly known by his stage name Diamond Platnumz, is a Tanzanian bongo flava recording artist, dancer and philanthropist.  He was born and raised in Tandale, Dar es Salaam. He is the founder and CEO of WCB Wasafi Record Label, Zoom Extra, Wasafi Bet and Wasafi Media. Zari the Boss Lady Zarinah Hassan, commonly known as Zari the Boss Lady or Zari Hassan, is a Ugandan reality slaylebrity television personality, entrepreneur, influencer, philanthropist and musician. She lives in South Africa, where most of her businesses and home are located. “I’m so excited for people to see how much of ourselves we poured into this show, showcasing our true, authentic trials and tribulations. Young, Famous & African will give our fans an insider look into our very entertaining, very busy lives”, boss lady said. Without revealing too much, these are some other key cast members that will have you glued and wanting more: Annie Macaulay-Idibia, 2Baba, Naked DJ, Nadia Nakai, Swanky Jerry, Andile Ncube and Kayleigh Schwark. “We thank each and every one of the cast members who gave of their time and allowed us a sneak peek into their lives.   “Young, Famous & African is a wild luxury ride, a trip that is worth the time,” executive producer Adelaide Joshua Hill concluded.