The year 2022 started off on a bitter note for South African DJ and mother of two, Sithelo Shozi, after her split from her partner and baby daddy Andile Mpisane, who then married Tamia Mpisane. Things seem to be looking up for Shozi though. She took to social media to share the exciting news of her new business venture – an online boutique store that will be selling clothing items exclusively for kids. Sithelo describes the clothes which will be available for purchase from her boutique as “luxury custom garments for kids”, and says this business venture was one which she started a few years ago, but failed to follow through on.  “A baby I gave birth to a few years ago, young, naïve & ever so inexperienced, however my unquenchable passion and love for you ran and still runs ever so deep.  “My hopes and dreams for you are unimaginable and unfathomable. May God see forth all our future steps as we embark on this journey again, only now in His time. “Proud to reintroduce @babym.sa 2022, you’re so personal,” said Shozi in the caption of her post.  In the video the mother of two posted on Instagram, her followers can see children running around a studio, wearing high fashion nude dresses with fluffy and frilly tutus, while the online boutique’s name, “Baby M” is seen in the background of the video.  Friends and followers of the DJ took to the comments section to congratulate Sithelo on her business venture, and to wish her well in her journey as a businesswoman and entrepreneur.  ALSO READ: ‘Hands off my grandchildren’ – MamMkhize addresses paternity drama Speaking to TrueLove, Sithelo said that there were some changes she had to make to the initial online boutique she had opened years ago, and says that she now creates luxury children’s clothing for special occasions.   “This time I’ve given the store a bit of a facelift and made it a lot more luxurious. I now want to cater for special occasions.  “Previously, I had created all kinds of clothing including schoolwear and casual clothing but now I want to strictly focus on more luxurious clothing garments such as suits, pullovers and linen sets.  “I also want to make special garments for pregnant mommies,” said Shozi.  The mother of two also said that the online boutique, as well as getting into children’s clothing business, is very sentimental and important to her because she has always felt that being a mother was her passion.  “A baby line is something I’ve always wanted to do because I’m so passionate about motherhood. I feel like my sole purpose is to be a mother and every other thing I do is just a hobby.  “When I was a little girl all I wanted to do was to be a mom and wouldn’t aspire to be a doctor or an accountant, so I wanted a baby store because babies are born every single day and there’ll always be a market for their clothing.  “Mothers want the best for their children and with everyone having access to normal retailers, my store will provide an exclusive experience for moms who want to spoil their children for special occasions,” said Shozi.