The era of original magazine covers causing a good stir or selling out copies may be gone, but some still manage to get people talking and Nicole Kidman’s Vanity Fair latest cover is one of them. The Oscar-nominated actress is seen wearing a skimpy two-piece ensemble from Miu Miu’s spring 2022 collection which has been described as “shrunken, skin-baring schoolgirl staples.” The 54-year-old is showing off her well-toned body in a low-slung belted miniskirt, along with a matching pleated bra top exposing her abs.  ALSO READ: Minki – “Short hair, don’t care” The look was completed with grey knee socks and pointy-toed loafers. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The cover has been compared to Britney Spears’ iconic school girl look in the music video Baby one more time. The cover shot is part of Vanity Fair’s 28th annual Hollywood Issue, which has eight other actors with their own covers. The actors are Idris Elba, Kristen Stewart, Penelope Cruz, Benedict Cumberbatch, Simu Liu, Andrew Garfield and Michaela Jae Rodriguez.  The look divided commentators, with some arguing that it this was too risque for Kidman at her age, saying it infantilised the 54-year-old woman and that the cover may have been Photoshopped as well.  However, others complimented the risk and her body.  Kidman is the lead actress in the new film, Being the Ricardos, in which she plays the character Lucille Ball, and which clinched her her fifth Oscar nomination. “My whole life is about staying in that place of humility—because you’re either in a place of humility or heading towards it,” she told the magazine.  Kidman said she was honoured to be part of the annual issue. Lucille Ball is an iconic actress known for her red hair from the1930s. Being the Ricardos stars Kidman as Lucille, Javier Bardem as Desi Arnaz and writer-director Aaron Sorkin.  It is about the relationship between Lucille and Desi and her raise to fame. The film has received three Oscar nominations.