Miss South Africa 2021 Lalela Mswane received a royal warm welcome upon her arrival in KwaZulu-Natal this past weekend.  This was the beauty queen’s first visit to her home province since she was crowned the new Miss South Africa on 16 October 2021 and the second runner up for Miss Universe 2021 on 13 December in Israel. Lalela took to her Instagram account to share a short video clip and some photos of her homecoming on Friday 4 February. The Miss SA 2021 title holder arrived in KwaZulu-Natal on Friday, where she attended a welcoming ceremony at KSIA with King Cetshwayo District Mayor His Worship Cllr. A.T Ntuli. “The magic thing about home is that it feels good to leave, and it feels even better to come back,” Lalela captioned the post accompanying the short video of her exciting arrival. ALSO READ: WATCH: DJ Fresh and Thabiso Sikwane confirm their divorce The beauty queen had a busy schedule, and even met with King Misizulu ka Zwelithini on Saturday. She looked absolutely radiant in a beautiful gown, called The Nguni dress, by South African designer Zamaswazi. The designer took to his Instagram account to thank Lalela and the Miss South Africa organisation for the opportunity to showcase his talents. “I’m so so grateful to be part of this historical moment. Thanks to @official_misssa team for giving me the chance to show my skill.“@lalela_mswane thank you so so much for allowing me to dress you on your big day I’m so grateful.“I believe this will open other doors for Zamaswazi and other designers who think it not possible,” the designer captioned the picture of Miss SA 2021 donning his creation. Netizens instantly fell in love with the dress, saying that she should have worn this dress at the Miss Universe Pageant.  The dress is not the only topic fans and followers had on their lips, they also took the opportunity to comment on what a handsome couple King Misizulu and Lalela make. “I see these two getting married soon,” @sibawilson commented, while another fan wanted to know if the two are getting married. Lalela is the first Miss SA to visit the Zulu Kingdom, and judging by the comments on social media, they wouldn’t mind should their king wish to take her as a wife.