South African Under-19 batting star Dewald Brevis has been the star of the on-going Under-19 Cricket World Cup in the West Indies. Despite South Africa not featuring in the last four, Brevis has made a name for himself with some excellent performances with the bat. He has become the tournament’s leading all-time run-scorer with 506 runs in six innings at an average of 84.33, with two hundreds and three fifties. He also took seven wickets with his leg-break bowling. Brevis’ scores were: 65 (v India), 104 (v Uganda), 96 (v Ireland), 97 (v England), 6 (v Sri Lanka) and 138 (v Bangladesh). Here are five things you need to know about the man they call ‘Baby AB’. Brevis is 18 years old and hails from Pretoria. He was however born in Johannesburg on 29 April 2003. He calls Afrikaans Hoër Seunskool (Affies) his alma mater – the same school that AB de Villiers and Faf du Plessis attended. His middle name is Tobias and he stands 1.78m tall and tip the scales at 60kg. He played first team cricket at school since the age of 14. Domestically, he is attached to Northerns (Titans).  His style at the crease and shot-making ability are moulded on former Proteas star AB de Villiers. Brevis told the ICC earlier in the tournament, “In my era growing up, everyone knows AB de Villiers, he’s been such a role model for me from a young age. “Watching him at SuperSport Park for the first time live, on TV; I always loved the way he played, 360 degrees, taking on the bowlers, being aggressive.”  Brevis admits he and De Villiers have spoken often. “It’s a special relationship, something that I keep close to my heart, he’s given me some advice and small things to improve my game.”  The youngster’s SA U-19 shirt also sports the number 17 on the back, below his name – the same number De Villiers had on his Proteas ODI shirt throughout his career. “I met AB the first time when I was at Affies and I asked him if I could wear a shirt with the ’17’ on it and he said, ‘Sure, play with it, that’s perfect’,” Brevis told Cricket Fanatics Magazine. “The number 17 has always stood out for me. It’s a big dream for me to represent my country and play all over the world.” Brevis has grabbed the attention of several franchise owners in the Indian Premier League ahead of next week’s auction for the 2022 tournament.  While the young South African has spoken in the past about his desire to play for the Royal Challengers Bangalore – the team of choice for De Villiers and Virat Kohli – and he could be the man to fill the spot vacated by a now retired De Villiers, other sides may be willing to bargain on the young star. The Kolkata Knight Riders are seemingly also keen on strengthening their batting, particularly in the middle order and could make a bid, while the Punjab Kings have cash to splash and need a batting boost so they, too, will be interested in Brevis.