Actress Pascal Pienaar, known by many for her role as Karlien du Preez in kykNET’s soap opera Binnelanders, has bowled her fans over with the news that she has decided to stay in America and not return to South Africa after her recent travels. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The actress took to Instagram in December, announcing that she won’t be returning to her home country. Her caption read: “I have decided to stay in America and not return to South Africa. It’s a scary journey at 32. I am starting from scratch and with an American accent that is hardly acceptable but I am here to learn and grow and win.” She has clearly put herself out there to make her mark in the entertainment industry, come hell or high water. “I don’t care how painful it may be. It’s going to be tough, but I am going to stick it out and give it a go,” wrote Pascal. “I wasn’t born to sit with regrets.” Justifying her bold move to herself, she says that she has the right to go wild when it comes to dreaming and doing the things she has always dreamed of. In a follow-up post, she said that she has been very quiet, because she has been trying to grasp the new reality of her living the American dream. She has been living the life in Los Angeles ever since, posting pictures of her exploring the city. “Behind you, all your memories. Before you, all your dreams. Around you, all who love you. Within you, all you need,” she wrote in another post. Pascal, who is a keen traveller, kicked off her life-altering trip early in November last year, saying that she has been waiting for that moment for two years. “Travel and tell no one, pfft! I have suffered in silence. I will post so hard – you’re in for a wild ride!” READ: 5 times we wanted access to Pascal Pienaar’s sunglass collection Her initial flight took her to Mexico, and eventually landed her in Los Angeles where she has decided to throw anchor and start from scratch. Could this be the next Charlize Theron?