The fake Gucci Instagram page which exposes celebrities wearing fake designer labels is at it again, and this time they have their eyes on businesswoman Shauwn “MaMKhize” Mkhize.  Instagram page Fake Gucci Community SA  caused quite a stir on their social media page last year. The account tags well-known faces and spots fake Gucci items worn by celebrities. They have called out the likes of Somizi Mhlongo, Mohale, Big Zulu and many others.  The account did receive criticism from celebrities which resulted in it becoming a private account. Due to this, there have subsequently been similar Fake Community Gucci pages created in South Africa.  According to this Fake Gucci account that has over 20,000 followers, MaMkhize, the Royal AM president and media personality known for wearing designer labels from Louis Vuitton, Givenchy and Dior, claims she has worn fake Gucci items.  ALSO READ: The catsuit is the new star of social The account alleges MaMkhize wore a fake North face X Gucci jacket, and they even provided “evidence” to prove their case.  The name of the jacket is “Veste en fourrure d’agneau” in French and translated in English, it means Lamb fur Jacket I’m. The jacket is fur, however, the jacket MamMkhize wears in the picture appear to be more cotton.  The jacket is priced at  €1,300 (R22 927,98).  The old posts that resurfaced also shows MaMkhize wearing another supposed fake Gucci item. This time a dragon Naga dragon bag.  The naga dragon bag is usually sold to mark the Chinese New Year.  MaMkhize’s bag had a chain, according to the account, Gucci doesn’t sell them with that accessory.  The account does put a disclaimer in all their post which reads: “This is not a hate page, our post only refers to obvious Fake Gucci items and are not an attack [on] the person. All the features shown are based on multiple [checks], in our opinion from the circumstantial evidence [shown] through the pictures. If something is unclear external experts are all called in. We distance ourselves from any form of bullying.” When Somizi was accused of wearing fake Gucci, he lashed out at the ‘official’ account.  He went to great lengths to prove he was wearing a real Gucci bucket hat. Somizi posted a video of himself at a Gucci store, recording his purchase straight from the luxury Italian brand.  He also showed he has a personal account, showing his previous purchases. ALSO READ: ‘I’ve worked so hard’- Somizi denies wearing fake Gucci