The ‘Afrikaans is Groot’ Awards – based on digital streaming numbers only – saw many well-known South African artists get recognition for their talent this week.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Steve Hofmeyr kindly explained the awards in a recent Instagram post: “Gold is 1.2 million streams, platinum is 2.4 million streams and diamond is more than 10 million streams.”  He thanked Coleske whom he says has once again taken the lead, pioneering the thought process in his unpredictable industry. The singer-songwriter was recognised for songs like Amanda, Die Land, Ons sal self, Pampoen, Feeslied, Agter elke man, I will always love you, The gambler, If I said you have a beautiful body and Country Roads. Hofmeyr received six gold awards, seven platinum awards and one diamond award. “Thank you,” he wrote.  “Help your mother and father and grandmother and grandfather now to compile their own Steve Hofmeyr playlist on any platform. You have thousands of songs from 35 years from which you can pick and choose.” READ: All Steve Hofmeyr wants from 2022 is smell, taste and wine Dewald Wasserval, Gerhard Steyn, Elvis Blue, Amira, Lianie May, Karlien van Jaarsveld, Jo Black and many others were also among the artists who got recognised for their achievements. “Tonight I feel incredibly grateful,” wrote Jo Black, saying that without his fans, his awards would not have been possible. He received four gold awards and eight platinum awards.  He thanked Afrikaans is Groot, Coleske Artists and Warner Music South Africa for the recognition, saying that they make a man feel proud. The songs that Jo Black got recognised for included Goud vir Bitter, Die vrou wat ek liefhet, Skepe, Bring die hoop weer terug, Voel jy die genade, Een klein klippie and Bitter. Karlien van Jaarsveld received recognition for music vidoes of her songs Goud vir my hartjie, Ek wil nie kwaad gaan slaap nie and Beter as liefde, as well as Geskeurde jeans, Sing vir liefde, Dans in die reën and Rooilipsoene. Her brother, Bobby van Jaarsveld also received recognition for his talent in the industry, and he responded by saying: “So I realise I’ve been out of the game for a long time, but it was so nice to receive three gold and five platinum music awards yesterday. It woke me up again to climb back into the industry and start making music again.”  He added: “So watch this space. I’ll be back,” especially since he has now been dubbed one of the ‘older’ artists.