Both Tweeps and Mr Smeg have been left heart broken after Pearl Thusi announced on Saturday she is leaving for a business trip on Sunday, which means she won’t be available for her planned date with Mr Smeg on Valentine’s Day. “So I’m travelling for work tomorrow for a week… how should I make it up to him?” the South African actress, model and presenter tweeted on Saturday. Thusi and Mr Smeg, whose real name is Micheal Bucwa, captivated the romantics on social media in January when they went on their #NationalLunchDate. Bucwa is a social media influencer and is known as Mr. Smeg due to his insistence on including a kettle and other appliances from the high-end Italian kitchen appliance brand in photos posted to his social media accounts. Mr Smeg first asked the Queen Sono actress on a lunch date on 25 January. “Hi @PearlThusi, May I take you out for lunch?”, he Tweeted to which she responded “Yes please. When?”. The streets of Twitter rejoiced at the planned date and Mzansi waited eagerly for more details of the #NationalLunchDate. ALSO READ: All eyes on Pearl Thusi as she goes on ‘national lunch date’ The eagerly-awaited date was live-streamed and had just over 100 000 views, which makes it understandable why Tweeps are crying rivers with Mr Smeg after finding out that the Valentine’s Day date they have been anticipating is no longer. It seems Mr Smeg is Smitten with Pearl.  On Wednesday, he took to Twitter to share a picture of Pearl in a red dress, tweeting “Pearl Thusi is beautiful” with a read heart emoji. Tweeps commented that Bucwa is smitten with Pearl and that it is sweet to watch. Another follower noted that she thinks Mr Smeg is starting to catch feelings and she hopes it won’t end badly. On 8 February, Pearl tweeted she had really bad news – four days before cancelling her date with Mr Smeg. Tweeps already anticipated this wouldn’t bode well for Mr Smeg. “Pearl I hope the second date is not cancelled. Our fans have been waiting with anticipation for the second date to happen, if it is cancelled I’ll scream really,” @Collen_KM tweeted. Here are some other reactions of how South Africans reacted to both the lead up to the cancellation of the Valentine’s Day date, and the moment the date was confirmed as cancelled: