Getting to know someone over a game of laser tag, during a hike or while visiting an exhibition: this is the principle of “hobby dates,” essentially spicing up one’s dates with an activity that is off the beaten track, at least for a date. Identified as one of the major trends in dating by American dating application Bumble, hobby dating has gained momentum since the pandemic. Sabrina Marzaro is a regular user of dating applications. Her first experience with them was more than six years ago. But “basic” meet-ups in a bar or a restaurant are not for her.  The 30-something single prefers to suggest a jogging session or going to see a stand-up comedy act for a potential date. “I’m lucky to meet people who have the same sense of adventure as I do. On one of my first dates, I suggested we go tree climbing at a rope park. My date said yes, but only on the condition that I try camping for the first time in my life!” she tells us.  And Sabrina is not alone in her preference for hobby dating. This method of dating is certainly not new, but it has grown with the pandemic. The dating app Bumble even identifies it as one of the major dating trends for the year 2022. “Before the pandemic, the norm was to meet up in a bar or coffee shop. But the ever-changing health situation over the past two years has forced singles to adapt and therefore be a little more creative.  Now it appears that the norm is to want to share your interests and passions as early as the first date,” Naomi Walkland, vice president of Bumble Europe, tells ETX Daily Up.  It’s a trend that can be seen in several countries, but the particular interests or “hobbies” can vary from one country to another.  According to several surveys conducted by Bumble, French singles are particularly fond of outdoor activities, such as hiking or running. ALSO READ: Daily hacks: Did you know that you could peel raw eggs? “This can be explained by the fact that we’re increasingly turning to nature after the periods of lockdown that we have experienced. This is a trend we have observed throughout Europe, but the activities vary from country to country, for example, skiing, swimming or cycling are more popular in other countries,” comments Naomi Walkland.  In the experience of Sabrina Marzaro – who grew up in the United States and lived in New York for a few years before moving to Paris – French people are more likely than Americans to meet up over cultural activities such as museum visits.  “In France, interests are largely cultural: cooking, art, photography, and museums are among the most popular, while music and festivals are more popular in other countries,” confirms Naomi Walkland. While “hobby dates” consist of experiences centered around leisure and the desire to have fun, this doesn’t stop them from being conducive for deeper discussions.  In the view of Sabrina Manzaro, a hobby date is actually an excellent way to break the ice: “You feel more comfortable opening up to each other about more serious subjects.  I also think these experiences help reveal different sides of our personalities. The choice of activity already says a lot about the person: for example, if he or she has sense of adventure or has maintained something of their inner child.” Some people may view hobby dating as a way of injecting some spontaneity into their date, to counterbalance the “formulaic” aspect of dating apps.  “One day, I asked my date to organise a surprise activity for me, so I had no idea where he was going to take me. Just in case, I put on a cocktail dress and heels, assuming we would probably go to a restaurant or bar. But I guessed wrong, since he took me to Disneyland!” Sabrina recalls in a burst of laughter.  But it is precisely this element of the unexpected that appeals to the young woman. “One of the great pleasures of hobby dates is being able to learn and discover new things, thanks to each other’s interests.  I’ve tried astronomy, I’ve tried new sports. It takes more effort and organisation, but it’s worth it because you create experiences together. Great memories get made.”    The experience of going on these hobby dates has even inspired her to write an illustrated book. Entitled Swiping for Prince Charming, the book tells the story of a girl looking for love in Paris, with stories drawn from the Italian-American’s own adventures.  “It’s a book about the quest for love, but also about self-love and the pleasure you get from going on the journey,” summarises Marzaro.    This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.