It seems like Orlando Pirates fans will have to wait a little bit longer to see Gabadinho Mhango back in action for the club following his outstanding performance for Malawi at the Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon recently. The goal-poacher, who scored three goals for the Flames in Cameroon, has been side-lined in the Bucs squad in their last three games, with the team recording two wins and a draw. READ ALSO: We didn’t play well, admits Pirates’ Mako His omission in the squad has raised a lot of questions from the club’s supporters, who are eager to see the 29-years old replicate his Afcon performance in a Bucs jersey. As Bucs prepare to take on Libyan club Al-Ittihad in the Caf Confederation Cup Group B clash at the Martyrs Of February Stadium in Libya on Sunday. The club’s supporters will be looking closely for Mhango’s name. However, co-coach Fadlu Davids, says Mhango will have to fight for his spot in the line-up like any other player. “I think that’s not the time to get into why this one is not playing and why that one is not playing because there are a lot of players that are not in the squad. You can name Tshegofatso Mabasa, you can name Ntsiki Nyauza who’s coming back from his illness, and there are a lot of players. Tebogo Tlolane, who is back from injury, is available. There are a lot of players who are fighting for their place,” said Davids. “The players on the pitch in the starting line-up are looking over their shoulders because these players keep pushing them. That is what you want in the team and we just urge all our players in our squad. All of them are still available to Orlando Pirates and all of them are going to play a part. At the moment they have to work hard, get into the squad and when they do get the opportunity, we hope they can take over the baton and do better than the players that are playing at the moment.” This will be Pirates’ second game in the group after beating Algerian outfit JS Saoura 2-0 in their opening group match, while the Libyan will only be playing their first game in this phase of the competition.