Orlando Pirates treble winning captain Lucky Lekgwathi says the team need to ensure that they use their home advantage to their best as they kick-start the Caf Confederation Cup group stages game when they take on Algerian outfit JS Saoura at the Orlando Stadium on Sunday. READ ALSO: ‘Mweene is doing well, I’ll wait’, says Onyango Having featured in many of the Buccaneers continental competitions including the Caf Champions League final against Al Ahly in 2013, the ex-Bucs skipper says once you play at home and make sure you win the match, everything just comes easy in the tournament. “We are playing at home, I think that is an advantage on its own in the first leg. The guys just need to make sure that they use the home advantage to their fullest. Yes, I understand that there are no fans, because if fans were allowed it was going to be even more beneficial for the team,” the former Bucs defender, who is now a businessman, told The Saturday Citizen. “I have faith in the team, I even watched their last game against AmaZulu FC in the Nedbank Cup, I think they played well and they can achieve so much by continuing to play like that. So, going into this game, I know it is going to be a challenge because North African teams are just tough to play against, especially when they play at home. But, since it is our home game, we have to use it to our best and get a good result. I have played North African a lot of times, I know how they are, but I trust the guys can do the job.” Lekgwathi also added that Pirates having the likes of Olisa Ndah, who was recently in the Africa Cup of Nations squad with Nigeria and Ghanaian striker Kwame Peprah should be a big boost for the club. But, the two players were not registered in the preliminary stages, but having done well in the domestic league, the club probably registered the two players and the former captain believes they will add value. “That boy (Ndah) was at the Afcon, he showed that he is quality and I think with him there will be more balance at the back. And the striker, you can see that he is hungry for goals and that will also help.”