Having quietly made the announcement as an initially undetected side-show on the back of the reveal of the new Ranger, Ford has now confirmed 22 February as the reveal date for the all-new Ranger Raptor. In addition to the launch date, set to take place at 09h00, the Blue Oval also released a short video of the pre-production Raptor being put through its paces in the Australian Outback. Showed being hustled along at considerable speed, power-sliding and hurled over a series of jumps, the 42 second clip, apart from momentarily showing the workings of the suspension, doesn’t provide any other details regarding the Raptor’s styling as this remains covered under the same thin wrapping that adorned the Ranger. The most telling aspect of the video though was the engine noise. In what appears to a confirmation of prevailing rumours, the Raptor looks set to be the beneficiary of a petrol engine as the soundtrack emitted anything but a diesel audio. As has been reported on a number of occasions, two EcoBoost V6s have been lined-up as possible powerunits; the 231kW/540Nm 2.7 used in the Bronco and the twin-turbo 3.0-litre that produces 298kW/563Nm in the Explorer ST and Bronco Raptor. ALSO READ: Hello: Cladded-up new Ford Ranger Raptor spied testing Until now, it has widely been believed that the Raptor, for markets such as Australia where the bulk of development has taken place, and South Africa, will continue with diesel power, namely the 186kW/597Nm 3.0-litre bent-six that once did service in the F-150. What’s more, rumours of a V8 engine have also reignited after being ruled-out in 2020 for the now outgoing model.  However, while interest has been admitted to in creating an ultra-hardcore model under the Raptor R moniker, plans for it becoming a reality are not being discussed or even mentioned according to Ford Australia President, Kay Hart. Even more telling than the soundtrack was the brief in-car shot which showed the steering wheel on the right-hand side. While clarity is only expected once the wraps come off, the location of the steering gear seemingly confirms a rumour from last year that the petrol-powered Raptor will be offered in right-hand-drive markets and not just with left-hand-drive for the United States. Allegedly the preview model for the much rumoured Volkswagen Amarok R, don’t be surprise if more details, in the form of leaks or official Ford material, emerge before 22 February.