Isn’t it strange how one day – Valentine’s Day – can have such a huge effect on people across the globe?  From Blake Lively showing love to hubby Ryan Reynolds (without any trolling) to Victoria Beckham sharing a heyday Valentine’s Day pic of her and her husband, David Beckham – love was all around yesterday.  Even in South Africa, celebs got all goofy with flowers, cards and cliche quotes.  Steve Hofmeyr shared a photo of him and wife, Janine with a quote from Doctor Zhivago: “You and I, it’s as though we have been taught to kiss in heaven and sent down to earth together, to see if we know what we were taught.”  In the post he also wished “everyone with a heart” a romantic Valentine’s Day. Steve and Janine also attended a show in Secunda for Valentine’s Day, looking quite content and comfortably in love.  ALSO SEE: PICS: Lerato Kganyago’s husband shuts down Valentine’s Day with his gift (again) Demi-Leigh and Tim Tebow are in the country and celebrated the day of love on the beach. “Happy Valentine’s Day my angel,” she wrote in her love post to Tim.  “It’s so special having you, my best friend, my biggest crush, my forever partner, in my favourite place in the world! Seeing you fall deeper in love with SA upon every visit only makes me adore you even more! I love you so much!” Jeanni Mulder shared a romantic sunset video of her and her swimmer boyfriend, Chad Le Clos – the caption short and sweet as the video says it all. “My Valentine, I love you so much,” she wrote. He also shared a carousel of couple images on Instagram, saying: “Happy Valentine’s Day, Bubs. Hope you had the best day, after leaving me in KZN. Love you.” Singer Andriette Norman got home from tour, and as she drove into their driveway, four of her favourite men welcomed her with roses. “Happy Valentine’s Day to everyone who loves,” she wrote. Karlien van Jaarsveld spent Valentine’s Day with her favourites too and shared a reel on Instagram with some of her most memorable moments, including love letters from her children and a lovely family dinner at home. It was cuteness overload in Simone Nortmann’s home on Valentine’s Day, with daughter Harper stealing hearts wherever she went in an outfit claiming that she is the littlest Valentine. Leandie du Randt and boyfriend, Stephan Neethling escaped to the outskirts of Pretoria for Valentine’s Day, spending some quality time at Hello Timber.  “Find someone that gives you a safe space to just be yourself,” she wrote in her Valentine’s post.  “Happy day of love, everybody!”  Their Valentine’s picnic looked magical, complete with a tepee tent, candlelight and bubbly. What more could one ask for? And, Mila Guy took to Insta-dancing on Valentine’s Day – in a see-through robe with feather detail! “Happy love day,” she wrote in her Instagram post. Whether it was at home or elsewhere, these celebs and their persons sure know how to celebrate love.