The introduction of the concept of the multiverse into the Marvel Cinematic Universe has opened up a world of exciting possibilities for Marvel fans and the upcoming instalment in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, titled Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness, looks set to take this to an entirely new level.  The multiverse concept first made somewhat of an appearance in 2021’s Disney+ series Loki but it really took hold in the What If…? series. However, What If…? was an animated series. The next live-action look at the multiverse after Loki was in 2021’s highly acclaimed Spider-Man: No Way Home.  If the reception to No Way Home is anything to go by, Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness has a lot to live up to. According to the most recent trailer for the film, it may well overtake No Way Home in both box-office earnings and popularity.  The trailer first premiered in America during the Big Game coverage of the Super Bowl weekend.  According to Disney Africa, the Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness trailer took viewers on a mind-blowing whirlwind through the multiverse. In addition, Marvel Studios also released a new poster for the supernatural adventure which is available now. ALSO READ: Marvel Cinematic Universe explained for South African Marvel ‘lite’ fans In Marvel Studios’ Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness, the MCU unlocks the multiverse and pushes its boundaries further than ever before.“Journey into the unknown with Doctor Strange, who, with the help of mystical allies both old and new, traverses the mind-bending and dangerous alternate realities of the Multiverse to confront a mysterious new adversary.” Because of the focus on the multiverse concept, fans are expecting to see some characters from previous films that were not linked to the MCU. Characters like Professor Charles Xavier of the X-Men and Monica Rambeau as Captain Marvel, as well as Peggy Carter as Captain Carter (the British version of Captain America). Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness stars Benedict Cumberbatch, Chiwetel Ejiofor, Elizabeth Olsen, Benedict Wong, Xochitl Gomez, with Michael Stühlbarg, and Rachel McAdams.  The film is directed by Sam Raimi, and Kevin Feige is the producer.  Louis D’Esposito, Victoria Alonso, Eric Hauserman Carroll and Jamie Christopher serve as executive producers. The screenplay was written by Michael Waldron.  Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness releases in US theatres on 6 May 2022. South African release dates are yet to be confirmed.