Olympic gold medallist Chad le Clos has taken to Instagram with the news that he has been sick for the past few weeks and that he won’t be competing in the Midmar Mile over the upcoming weekend. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. “I have a little bit of news,” he said in his reel. “Unfortunately, I have been sick the last couple of weeks. I was going to compete at the Midmar Mile coming up this weekend in Durban. Unfortunately, I haven’t trained for the last two weeks,” the famous swimmer said. A post shared by Chad Le Clos (@chadleclos92) He was hospitalised with what he calls “a little bit of a chest infection – bronchitis” and he has been nebulising since he was released from hospital. He finally returned to the swimming pool three days ago, but says that it is unfortunately not enough training before the Midmar Mile event. READ: Vote now: Chad le Clos in a Scottish kilt or a speedo? The Olympic swimmer will be at the event on Saturday and Sunday though, and thanked everyone who continues to support the Chad Le Clos Foundation. He said that he is looking forward to seeing all the 8-Mile swimmers at the race on Saturday and Sunday. In another video, he also had a message for all the 8-Mile and 16-Mile club members, thanking everyone for their support and for entering the competition. “Unfortunately, I won’t be there in person. I’ll only be there this weekend, because I need to do some training of my own, but I just want to thank you guys again for all your support. And, have a great race. I know you guys will be racing until Friday, so I’ll be watching. Lots of love from me and my family, thank you so much.” Le Clos launched the Chad Le Clos Foundation in 2018, partnering with the Midmar Mile, the world’s biggest open water swimming event, to raise funds to advance the development of swimming in South Africa. This year’s Midmar Mile event will accommodate the competitive swimmer, the social swimmer, the valuable community of the 8-Mile and 16-Mile charity swimmers and also a new schools charity relay challenge. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.