The Roberts and Mboya families have confirmed the passing of their daughter, Kuli Roberts.  “It is with profound regret and sadness that we confirm the untimely passing of our dear daughter, mother, grandmother, sister and aunt Nomakula ‘Kuli’ Roberts.” The family confirmed that she passed on Wednesday evening in Johannesburg.  She leaves behind two children, a grandchild, her parents and three siblings. “The Roberts and Mboya families are deeply thankful for all the countless personal messages of love and support received thus far. These are appreciated. The details of the memorial and funeral will be confirmed in due course.” Kuli Roberts’ cause of death has not yet been confirmed, however, several reports have been published citing witness accounts that claim Kuli Roberts collapsed while on set filming a new show and she just never got up again.  The Citizen was made aware of news about her passing early on Thursday morning, and Daily Sun was the first to confirm the news. According to the publication, she died on Wednesday evening shortly before she was scheduled to do a radio interview. Roberts recently made headlines following a spat with Mzwanele Manyi after she was announced as an ATM councillor candidate ahead of the local government elections. Kuli was born Nomakula Roberts on 16 December. Several pages list her birth year as 1982, which would make her 40, however, at age 49, she would have been born in 1973. She cut her teeth as a fashion and beauty tabloid journalist before becoming an editor for several publications, a television presenter and later an actress. Between 2008 and 2009 she worked as the female co-host of the SABC1 gossip show The Real Goboza.In July 2016, Kuli Roberts served as one of the four personalities headlining SABC3’s daily talk show Trending SA which saw the panel discuss trending hashtags of the day, sparking conversation with guests who are brought in to delve deeper into issues that were trending on social media. She also starred in the Netflix film Angelina. NOW READ: Kuli Roberts vs Mzwanele Manyi – who lied about her being part of ATM?