Former Springbok and Western Province rugby legend HO de Villiers – who was widely regarded for ‘changing the game’ – has passed way. Henry Oswald de Villiers, fondly known as HO, was 76 years old. He was regarded as the fullback who revolutionised ‘attacking from the back’. Tributes were shared on social media, with former South African rugby union player Kobus Wiese saying, “another big tree has fallen, rest in peace Oom HO de Villiers”.  A true gentleman, brilliant player and true scholar of the game. – Kobus Wiese Another Twitter user, Johan Immelman, said De Villiers was a “true gentleman, a superb sportsman, and a genuine friend”, while Mark Alexander, president of SA Rugby, said:  “HO will always go down as one of the legends of Springbok rugby and even today, his name is well known amongst the rugby fraternity.” Alexander said De Villiers was “a wonderful man who represented South Africa at the highest stage and contributed so much to the game he loved dearly.” De Villiers, who joined the UCT RFC in 1965, played 38 times for Western Province and was selected for the Ikeys first team.  De Villiers later became an honorary Springbok and played fourteen test matches. His debut was in the 1967 match against France at Kings Park, where he scored 11 points.  Unfortunately, De Villiers was forced to retire early in his career when he tore the ligaments in his right leg during a practice session.  His last test for the Springboks was in 1970 against Wales at Cardiff Arms Park, and De Villiers underwent a total knee re-construction five years later. In 2021, De Villiers also had to undergo surgery to remove a brain tumour.  Speaking to Independent’s Peter Bills in 2009, De Villiers said he “thrived on practising and lived for rugby”. However, the Springbok legend had regrets.  “I’d say my biggest regret is that I never played in the professional era where the training is so much more sophisticated”, he told Bills.  He said rugby “was like a religion” during his forming years, and recalls his mother dressing him as a Springbok rugby player for a fancy dress party when he was five years old.  “My little friend was dressed as an All Black. It was an obsession.” ALSO READ: ‘Time to move on’: Neil Powell ready for new challenge