The Bulls produced a performance full of senseless mistakes but played enough decent rugby to just see off the Lions 21-13 in their United Rugby Championship derby at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday. The home side endured a torrid first quarter, especially in the scrums where Lions tighthead Carlu Sadie was a massive figure both figuratively and literally. And the Bulls kept being forced to scrum because they made a number of handling errors – half-a-dozen in the first 15 minutes alone. Considering their messy start, the Bulls were fortunate to be only 6-0 down after the first quarter, Lions flyhalf Tiaan Swanepoel slotting two penalties. While the Bulls were full of ambition in terms of playing ball-in-hand, expansive rugby and getting into the wide channels, they did it in rather frantic fashion and it was only once they started to keep the ball a bit tighter in the initial phases, earning the right to go wide, that they started to gain momentum in the game. Keeping the ball tight among the forwards brought the first try when flank Marcell Coetzee forced his way over after a pick-and-go from a penalty under the poles. And the Lions suffered a key blow just a minute before halftime when Sadie went head-first into a tackle, conceding a relieving penalty. The Bulls used a blindside move at the lineout, drawing another penalty, for offsides, and then their rolling maul went over for an important try, scored by hooker Johan Grobbelaar, to give them a 14-6 lead at the break. There was little respite available for the Bulls in the second half though, as the admirable Lions pack continued to give their all. The Bulls continued to struggle in the scrums, even though referee Aimee Barrett-Theron gave them a couple of fortunate penalties, and the home side were just lucky that the Lions’ execution was poor, especially at lineout time. It was typically scrappy derby rugby, brightened only by fullback Kurt-Lee Arendse’s try in the 49th minute. It was a turnover penalty won by Coetzee that led to concerted pressure by the Bulls, centre Lionel Mapoe’s slick pass giving Arendse the space to drift outside his man in wonderful fashion and dart over for the try. The Lions eventually gained some reward for their dominant scrum in the final quarter, allowing them to set a lineout maul inside the Bulls’ 22, from which lock Ruben Schoeman scored to cut the gap to 13-21. But the Lions failed to hang on to possession long enough in the remaining eight minutes to put the Bulls under further pressure. Scorers Bulls – Tries: Marcell Coetzee, Johan Grobbelaar, Kurt-Lee Arendse. Conversions: Morne Steyn (3). Lions – Try: Ruben Schoeman. Conversion: Tiaan Swanepoel. Penalties: Swanepoel (2).