Inspired by the sublime and feature-filled Samsung Galaxy S21 series, this device has been carefully-curated to reflect the beautiful display, and iconic contour-cut design which many South Africans have gravitated towards. Combining form with function, the Galaxy S21 FE 5G offers fan-favourite aspects of the Galaxy S21 experience in a well-rounded and accessible 5G-Enabled1 smartphone with premium capabilities that empower you to explore, experience, and fully enjoy each day. The experience is enhanced with pro-grade cameras, a fast processor and high-quality graphics and picture quality. The Galaxy S21 FE 5G includes a stunning 6.4-inch FHD+ Dynamic AMOLED 2X Display2, which offers breathtaking design features. You can expect an iconic Contour-Cut design, which seamlessly integrates the camera housing to the body. With its beautiful, natural colours, get set to discover new ways to express your personality with a choice of trendy colours – Olive, Lavender, White and Graphite – along with a stylish haze finish. With its comfortable grip it seamlessly fits your on-the-go lifestyle and slips effortlessly into your pocket with its sleek, slim body, only 7.9mm thick. Importantly, the Galaxy S21 FE 5G is protected with Gorilla® Glass Victus™, the toughest glass on a Samsung Galaxy smartphone3. And the visual and tactile enjoyment is reinforced with long-lasting batteries as the Galaxy S21 FE 5G is outfitted with an all-day battery built to last from work to home and everywhere in between4. S21 FE 5G’s powerful battery is reinforced with 25W Super-fast charging capabilities5 so you can charge your battery by more than 50% in just 30 minutes, and enjoy the S21 FE 5G’s brilliant high-speed performance without interruption. You’ll also find pleasure in showcasing this device as you capture memorable moments. With the Galaxy S21 FE 5G, photography amateurs and pros alike can effortlessly edit and deliver scroll-stopping content thanks to a pro-grade camera that does all the heavy lifting for you. Plus, as part of the S21 series and Galaxy family, the Galaxy S21 FE 5G offers seamless connectivity across the entire Galaxy ecosystem. Multitaskers can easily pair their Galaxy S21 FE 5G with other Galaxy devices, like Galaxy Buds2 or Watch4, and effortlessly transition from watching videos on their tablet to taking work calls on their Galaxy S21 FE 5G. This impressive device is also IP68 rated, which means it keeps your phone safe from splashes, drips, and up to 1.5 metres of water for around 30 minutes6. The Galaxy S21 FE 5G is available nationwide, through network operators and retailers in-store and online at a recommended retail price of R14,9997. Those who choose to buy this much-anticipated device can take advantage of an amazing launch offer including a free Galaxy Tab A7 Lite WiFi as well as the option to get the peace of mind of Samsung Care+ for a once-off fee of R4998. For more info on the Galaxy S21 FE 5G click here. 15G speeds vary and require optimal network and connection (factors include frequency, bandwidth, congestion); see carrier for availability. 2Measured diagonally, Galaxy S21 FE 5G’s screen size is 6.4-inch in the full rectangle and 6.3-inch when accounting for the rounded corners; actual viewable area is less due to the rounded corners and camera hole 3When compared to the previous Galaxy S20 FE. Corning® Gorilla® Glass Victus™ only available on the Cover Screen. This Gorilla Glass is the most resistant ever built into Samsung smartphone. 4Dependent on individual usage and applications in use. Typical value tested under third-party laboratory condition. Typical value is the estimated average value considering the deviation in battery capacity among the battery samples tested under IEC 61960 standard. Rated (minimum) capacity is 4,370mAh for Galaxy S21 FE. Actual battery life may vary depending on network environment, usage patterns and other factors. 5Charging with 25W Super-fast charger from 0 to 50%. Charger is sold separately. 6Galaxy S21 FE 5G is rated as IP68. Based on test conditions for submersion in up to 1.5 metres of freshwater for up to 30 minutes. Not advised for beach or pool use. 7Price may vary per retailer. 8T’s & C’s apply. Care+ to be activated within 30 days of purchase on https://www.samsung.com/za/offer/samsung-care-plus/. Care Plus promotion valid until 31 March 2022. Screen protection is valid for one incident for the repair of damaged screen within a 12-month period. A repair fee of R999 will be payable per claim. Image simulated. Colour may vary depending on network operator.