It’s been a long and sometimes potholed road for Temba Bavuma, but the Proteas vice-captain will play his 49th Test in the second match against New Zealand and he says he now feels fully valued and accepted as a leader in the team. Bavuma made his Test debut way back in 2014, in the Boxing Day match against the West Indies at St George’s Park, which was ruined by rain. Six matches later, his maiden Test century, against England at Newlands, was historic and one of the most memorable moments in South African cricket since the return from isolation. But as with most of his team-mates, 2019 was an annus horribilis for Bavuma as he averaged only 19.84 in 13 innings. He was dropped and has come back stronger, averaging 46.16 since then. ALSO READ: Proteas line-up for second Test: Who will selectors back, turn to? “I have more peace about how I fit in now, my role in the team,” Bavuma said. “Every game does not feel like my last opportunity now. My role is not just about the runs but my presence, how I contribute to building the culture and environment. “It has helped me to be more at ease. It’s also helped that I’ve played a fair number of games now and I’ve learnt to accept that there will be good and bad days. “If it’s a bad day, then you need to have perspective. They don’t define who we are, although we take the lessons from them.” The 31-year-old Bavuma is a sucker for honest leadership, being that kind of skipper himself with the Proteas white-ball teams or the Central Gauteng Lions. Which is why he has dovetailed so well with Test captain Dean Elgar. ALSO READ: Du Plessis, Van Niekerk among overseas stars to sign up for Hundred “Dean and I have played alongside each other for quite a while, ever since playing for SA A in 2012/13,” Bavuma said. “The relationship has always been built on honesty. There’s no bullshit with Dean. “He can be very blunt. He will call you out if you need it, but if you’ve done good then he lets you know as well. His character resonates with me and he wants the same sort of feedback from me. “As his vice-captain, I try to be a calming voice because he can be quite emotional, but I understand his vision and I back it 100%, and I also back him as a leader and player. “His success is my success and vice-versa, and we both just want to bring back the respect for the Proteas badge and leave the team in a much better state.”