President Volodymyr Zelenskyy introduced martial law in Ukraine as Russia declared war on Thursday. Martial law would impose harder restrictions, which could include bans on meetings, movements and political parties. On Thursday, explosions rang out in several cities near the frontline, including the coastal regions and Kyiv, the country’s capital.  Correspondents reported explosions in the Black Sea port city of Odessa as well, and in Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second-largest city, which lies approximately 35 kilometres south of the Russian border.  Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Ukraine was facing a “full-scale invasion”. Kuleba said, “the world must act immediately.”  Kuleba called for the following priority actions: Meanwhile, Putin said in a televised address the move was not to occupy Ukraine, instead, military action was aimed at “demilitarising” Russia’s neighbour.  “We decided to launch a special military action aimed at demilitarisation and denazification of Ukraine,” Putin said in a televised address on Thursday. The Russian president warned other countries to step aside, so to speak, or face severe consequences. He said:  “Whoever tries to impede us, let alone create threats for our country and its people must know that the Russian response will be immediate and lead to the consequences you have never seen in history”. Earlier, Putin said clashes between Russian and Ukrainian forces are “inevitable” and called on Ukrainian service members to “lay down their arms and go home”. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he is “appalled by the horrific events in Ukraine  “I have spoken to President Zelenskyy to discuss the next steps. President Putin has chosen a path of bloodshed and destruction by launching this unprovoked attack on Ukraine.” Johnson said the UK and its allies “will respond decisively”. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said Russia’s invasion was “a glaring violation” of international law on a “dark day” for Europe. Scholz said in a statement Germany condemns in the strongest possible terms this unscrupulous act by President Putin. Our solidarity goes out to Ukraine and its people”. US President Joe Biden said Russia will be held accountable, and warned the invasion of Ukrainian territory will cause catastrophic loss of life. This is a developing story, more to follow NOW WATCH: Tanks roll through streets as Putin defies West, moves into Ukraine