With the unveiling last year of the EQS 53 as the first ever all-electric AMG fettled model, the tuning division of Mercedes-Benz has now applied the same touches to the step below EQE. The future replacement for the standard, comparative E-Class based models, the EQE offers a choice of two models; 43 and 53 with both deriving motivation from a slightly bigger 90.6-kWh battery in two states of tune. Developed specifically by AMG, with the added convenience of being charged-up at a fast charger in 15 minutes, thus providing an immediate range of 180 km, the unit produces 350kW/858Nm in the 43, which translates to a limited top speed of 210 km/h and 0-100 km/h in 4.2 seconds. According to AMG, the EQE 43 can travel up to 533 km on a single charge with the standard on-board charger being an 11 kW item. A bigger 22 kW outlet can be had as an option. For the 53, AMG has upped the outputs to 460kW/950Nm, which increases to 505kW/1 000Nm when fitted with the optional AMG Dynamic Plus packages that adds a Race mode as well as an AMG specifically programmed soundtrack. Also available as an option on the 53, the inclusion of the package allows the EQE 53 to reach a top speed of 240 km/h instead of 220 km/h with it being absent, while the 0-100 km/h sprint drops from 3.5 seconds to 3.2 seconds. The claimed maximum range is 518 km. Unlike the standard EQE, both the 43 and 53 are all-wheel-drive with the main difference being the 4Matic+ system on the latter that varies torque between the front and rear axles, thereby providing an even split. In addition, both come as standard with not only the rear axle steering system, but also the AMG Ride Control+ air suspension with adaptive damping that drops the overall ride height by up to 15 mm when in Sport or Sport+ modes. Setup specifically for the EQE, the AMG Dynamic Select system consists of five modes; Slippery, Comfort, Sport, Sport+ and Individual with buyers having the added option of switching the Electronic Stability Control off entirely for “even more driving pleasure”. ALSO READ: Future E-Class debuts as Mercedes-Benz reveals new EQE Mounted on model specific Michelin Pilot Sport EV tyres, AMG has also tweaked the EQE’s brakes with the standard setup being a six-piston caliper at the front and single at the rear, made up of discs measuring 415 mm and 378 mm respectively. As an option, together with bigger 21-inch alloy wheels, the AMG carbon ceramic stoppers retain the caliper setup, but with 440 mm discs at the front with the rears, apart from the change in material, being the same seize as those of the standard steel items. Externally, both the 43 and 53 differ from the standard EQE 350 by virtue of not only the AMG wheels and badges, but also by the inclusion of a gloss black Panamericana inspired sealed grille panel with imitation chrome slates, a gloss black splitter, the AMG A-wing front apron and optional faux air inlets on the flanks of the bumper. Rounding the aesthetic tweaks off are black AMG branded door sills, the AMG optimised rear diffuser, also finished in gloss black, and a model specific bootlid spoiler. In usual AMG fashion, buyers can also specify either the Night Package, which consists of gloss black and black chrome exterior detailing and red AMG brake calipers, or the Carbon package made-up of carbon fibre exterior finishes. Inside, the AMG EQE keeps the standard 12.3-inch digital instrument and 12.8-inch MBUX infotainment system, with the option of upgrading to the 56-inch Hyperscreen display programmed with AMG exclusive graphics and readouts. Also bespoke to both models is the flat-bottom twin-spoke AMG Performance steering wheel, standard Artico leather/Artico micro-fibres with red stitching or optional Nappa leather trimmed AMG sport seats, AMG embroidered headrests and floor mats, alloy pedals, AMG door sills and an Artico grey dashboard with red stitching. Set to go on sale later this year, both models will slot-in below the EQS AMG 53 as the most accessible electric AMG models with pricing to be confirmed later. What is known though is that South Africa will only be privy to the EQE AMG 43 from October.