Abuse of public power per se was not a criminal offence, acting Chief Justice Raymond Zondo said in his second report on State Capture on Tuesday, suggesting it was time to make it so with incredibly stiff penalties. Potential violations could include “a president who hands a large portion of the national wealth, or access to that wealth, to an unauthorised recipient, to the junior official who suspends a colleague out of motives of envy or revenge”. Zondo’s proposal? “Any person who exercises or purports to exercise any public power, including any such power vested in such person by the constitution, national or provincial legislation… or by municipal bylaw … shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of up to R200 million or imprisonment for up to 20 years – or to both such fine and imprisonment.” Zondo continued naming names in his second report – making damning findings against the likes of former public enterprises minister Malusi Gigaba and ex-Transnet bigwigs Anoj Singh, Siyabonga Gama and – once again – Brian Molefe, over their alleged dodgy dealings at the state-owned transport and logistics company. ALSO READ: Manyi slams Zondo’s ‘rubbish’ findings, says Zuma is ‘studying’ state capture report He recommended all four – and several others – be investigated in connection with possible charges of corruption and racketeering over payments they allegedly received on visits to the Gupta compound in Saxonwold. He also recommended Molefe, Singh and Gama be investigated over other potential charges – including fraud, corruption, racketeering, contravening the Public Finance Management Act and offences related to the proceeds of unlawful activities. “Surely, a prudent minister would have had nothing to do with bringing an attorney who had been struck off the roll of attorneys for something to do with his trust account into the board of an SOE, not to mention making him the chair of the board,” Zondo said. “Were there no attorneys who had never been struck off the roll, if the board required an attorney?” Zondo noted Gauteng had “thousands” of attorneys. “Did Mr Mantsha have any particular good experience or expertise? No. So why did Minister Brown choose him,” Zondo asked. ALSO READ: Manyi’s role in state capture drive exposed in Zondo report He said it would have been simple to find out an attorney’s history and that she did not do her homework in this regard, was an “indication she must have been given his name by the Guptas”. “The first step was to remove control of Denel from the hands of a competent and honest board,” said Zondo. The cover for this was the end of terms of office of the members of the 2011 board. “By then the Guptas had taken control of VR Laser. Their cover was in place,” Zondo noted, “The evidence shows quite conclusively that the means used by Minister Brown to replace the members of the 2011 board with her own appointees excluded the department of public enterprises officials from any input into the process and ensured no criticisms of Minister Brown’s appointees.”  Additional reporting by Amanda Watson.