Valiant Swart’s wife and agent, Lanelle, has been struggling with lymphedema, after undergoing cancer surgery two years ago.  Valiant hosted an auction in honour of his wife, to raise funds for an overseas micro-surgical procedure which treats the condition – something only a few surgeons specialise in. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. A Jacaranda FM listener, Janine Rabie also requested assistance from the radio station’s popular Good Morning Angels after hearing about Lanelle’s condition.  In addition to Valiant’s auctions, the community upliftment feature –which has helped numerous South Africans with various needs – has also committed to assist the couple by donating R30,000 toward her treatment. READ: Valiant Swart auctions off valuable memorabilia to pay for wife’s surgery Janine Rabie’s request read: “Good morning, everyone. I read an article about Valiant Swart’s wife, who is ill at the moment, this morning. And my heart breaks for them. “I love his music and I am sure there are many other people who feel the same. Please, Angels, can’t you help?” She also said that although she did not know Valiant Swart personally, she could see that they need help. After two of the toughest years in the music industry, Valiant Swart auctioned off some of his most precious instruments, hand-written lyrics and other valuable items on 27 January, to raise funds for his wife’s surgery. The auction and people’s generosity reportedly had Lanelle in tears, with people bidding up to R70,000 for Valiant Swart’s guitars and handwritten songs.  One acoustic guitar from the series, Song vir Katryn – in which Valiant Swart played the role of Jinx – was sold for R50,000 during the auction.  Fans would remember the guitar well, aptly called Krokodil (Crocodile).  Another one of Jinx’s guitars – an electric guitar with the handwritten lyrics of the song, Eyeshadow was sold for a whopping R70,000.  In addition, the last bottles of Mystic Boer brandy, other wine collections, art and other items were sold for between R20,000 and R75,000. The auction was held by Woes, an organisation launched to support artists who have been struggling due to Covid-19 and its harsh regulations. Valiant Swart and Lanelle will be celebrating their 30th wedding anniversary next year and hope that the funds raised will help change her life for the better.  Another auction is due to be held in Cape Town on 27 February, with artists like Karen Zoid, Francois van Coke, and Anton Goosen performing for the cause.