Venda star Ndivhudzannyi Ralivhona, popularly known as Makhadzi, recently held a small gathering for her closest friends and gave her fans a tour of her lavish home. Taking to social media, the singer went live on Instagram while she was hosting a pool party at her home for her closest friends. On the Live, Makhadzi announced that she had bought a new home, and made it clear to her fans and followers that the house was in her name and fully paid off.  “Yes, this is my house. It’s not a rental house. I don’t owe this house, don’t be fooled. If you have power you can go and check it, wherever they check it. This is not credit, don’t be fooled,” said Ralivhona. The singer also responded to her fans’ advice of investing her money in other properties, sharing that she has bought an apartment in Sunnyside, Pretoria, which she rents out. “Don’t worry my love. Thank you very much for advising but already everything is in the process. I have a flat already. Dineo, please tell them that we are owning a flat there in Sunnyside. If you want accommodation, please make one call,” said the singer.   After spending most of the Live in her swimming pool, the Ghanama star then heads out of the pool to show her fans and followers the inside of her double-storey home, which has portraits of the singer hanging on the walls, and a white dining room table set, which is situated not too far from the living room which has brown couches.  Makhadzi also showed her followers her kitchen, which has white and grey kitchen cupboards, a white kitchen counter top, and matching dark grey appliances.  The entertainer recently released a song called Kulakwe with her romantic partner and Jerusalema star, Master KG, which has been topping the charts. Makhadzi took to social media to share with her fans that the single has reached number one on iTunes, and number two on YouTube.  Before that, she announced that the song had reached the number three spot on YouTube in less than 24 hours of being released.