One of the biggest food and music festivals in South Africa – DStv Delicious – is back after a two-year, pandemic-driven hiatus, but details about it are currently hard to come by.  However, there are a few things that The Citizen team has figured out for you.  The DStv Delicious International Food and Music Festival was known as the place to be and South Africans and international guests would often flock to its weekend-long fest at the Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit in Midrand during springtime.  There have been seven editions of this festival featuring major international acts such as Erykah Badu, Common, the late Nigerian artist Femi Kuti, Hugh Masekela, and Black Coffee on its stage. Besides the top-tier music, the festival also boasted endless rows of food stalls catering for all taste buds as well as appearances by TV chefs and personalities who headed up their own kiosks for masterclasses and meet and greets.   What was once a one-day event had to transition to a weekend-long do because of the success and such a large number of visitors.  DStv Delicious Festival posted on their Twitter account that ticket registrations are now open and indicted when it will take place.  The pre-registered tickets are R550, early risers will get an R220 discount, meaning the full ticket price after, start at R770. The DStv Delicious Festival is scheduled for Heritage Day weekend, from 24 and 25 September 2022.  In the process of pre-registration, the link provides you with three different ticket prices.  The first is the standard “Delicious Picnic Lawn” costing R550, the “Delicious Picnic Paddock is a fixed pre-registration cost of R1,295 and the “Delicious Terrace Lounge” at R1,950.  It is not clear yet if the festival will be held in the same location as in the previous years.  The registration of the tickets is an easy one. The link will ask you to fill in your personal details, cellphone number, email address and what option you would prefer to have communication of when tickets go on sale.   After this, it then asks you which performers you would like to headline at the main stage, the dance stage and whether you are vaccinated.  It also asks you what day you want to attend or if you prefer attending both days. You then decide what type of ticket you want, if all is filled in currently, it will say you have successfully registered.  You will get notifications either by email or SMS when tickets go on sale. The organisers are giving away a limited number of codes to buy the “Super Early” birds tickets, so you will need to be quick when purchasing.  South Africans were understandably excited to hear that the DStv Delicious Festival is back: