Due to take place from 23 to 26 March this year, the Silwerskerm Festival will be hosted virtually, while simultaneously taking place at The Bay Hotel in Cape Town’s Rotunda. Registration for the festival costs R190, which will give you access to four days’ worth of brilliant movie premieres, and that with a South African flavour!  Funds raised from the registration fees will go toward supporting local entertainment artists who have been struggling due to the Covid-19 pandemic’s lockdown regulations. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. This year’s festival boasts nine full-length films competing for the renowned Silwerskerm Awards, as well as seventeen short films that have been produced with the support of the festival and kykNET. The festival programme will also include various industry related talks, as well as Q&A sessions with the producers and stars of the relevant movies.  Some freshy produced movies that have not really been aired in South Africa yet, will also be screened at the Silwerskerm Festival this year. READ: SA movie ‘Moffie’ eligible for the Oscars The festival is Beurtkrag’s world premiere.  Celebirty couple Ivan Botha and DonnaLee Roberts collaborated with director, Jozua Malherbe to make a full-length film of the screenplay of the 2015 Silwerskerm Festival’s short film, also called Beurtkrag. This movie already impressed international audiences, with critics praising Indemnity’s cinematography.  The action film by Travis Taute has a brilliant cast too, including the likes of Gail Mabalane and Hlomla Dandala. In this experimental satirical comedy-drama, Joseph Mabena lives in an informal settlement, Hangberg with his wife and extended family.  The film revolves around them always being under each other’s feet and always knowing everything about everyone – an authentic tale with only two professional actors. The rest of the cast are all from the Hangberg community. Etienne Fourie, who has previously won a Silwerskerm Award for his film, Die Windpomp, brings audiences a thriller, which is a new genre for him.  Produced by Homebrew films, Stiekyt promises to keep you nailed to your seat. Another short film that has been reworked into a full-length film, Vlugtig was directed by Marinus Gubitz.  The talented Jane de Wet, famous for her roles in Showmax’s The Girl from St. Agnes and kykNET’s Spoorloos: Steynhof is part of the cast in this feature film. This is the very first ecological horror film in Afrikaans – a film that has received much praise internationally since premiering at the highly acclaimed South by South-West Festival in the USA in March.  The feature film has even been included in the Forbes top 10 list and it won an award for the best cinematography at South by South-West. Short films to keep an eye out for at the Silwerskerm Festival this year include Baber, Verstikking, Aan/Af, My beskermer, Nagvoël, Bennie Bingo, Bittersoet, Sporadies Nomadies, Katvis, Skyn, Twintig tone in ’n hangkas, Net ons, Die Horries, Vrywater, Bergie, Die groensone and Leemtes en leeghied.  The short film project serves as a platform that hones young filmmakers’ talent, and includes a variety of genres. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.