Tweeps have been dragging actress and model Minnie Dlamini in the streets of social media after news of her pending divorce to TV producer Quinton Jones broke on Tuesday afternoon.   The TV personality took to Instagram to announce her split with her husband on Tuesday, after speculations rose that she removed her marital surname from her Instagram.  With a relationship that was in the public eye, it didn’t make it any easier to share the news about the divorce.  “This was a difficult decision to come to and even more heartbreaking to have to announce it”, Minnie wrote in the statement.  The announcement of the divorce took people by surprise, as the Jones’s were labelled a power couple – according to those who gushed over #Becoming Mrs Jones Even though the sports presenter asked friends and fans to grant them privacy during this difficult time; tweeps still saw fit to voice out their opinions.  After the news broke, Twitter mopped the floor with Minnie Dlamini.  Minnie Dlamini might be back in the market..But her market value drastically dropped. She is turning 32 this year… With a child and as return soldiersShe won't competing with the young ones anymore..Her strongest competition now is Sis Dineo Ranaka.— ChrisExcel (@ChrisExcel102) February 16, 2022 “You can’t be a married woman and still hang out with divorced friends, how do you expect your marriage to turn out?”, one tweep commented.  The 31-year-old television host is now being bashed for divorcing a ‘simp’- a silly or foolish person.  “I want to talk about how Minnie Dlamini divorces a simp and secures the bag”, Slik Talk said when introducing his topic of the day on his YouTube video.  “Everyone knew you were not going to last in that marriage, you have the qualities of a return solider. Minnie um’dlalile – you played him – you secured the bag and finessed him”, the YouTuber continued.  Though the announcement came with a lot of backlash, there are others who empathise with the Homeground host.  “Growth is painful. Change is painful. But nothing is as painful as staying stuck somewhere you don’t belong. Divorces always happen and there is nothing bad about that, strength to former Mrs Jones family”, a more understanding tweep said. READ NEXT: ‘Miss SA is abusive’: Drama as Lalela Mswane set to represent SA at Miss Supranational 2022