Not a week goes by without TikTok users coming up with a new beauty trick and sharing their creative discovery on the social network. The latest beauty tip shows how beauty fans can get the perfect shade of lipstick with an eyebrow pencil and blush.  Sounds complicated? Well, sometimes beauty is! TikToker friends, get your beauty palettes out!  For this trick, forget about lipstick, far too boring for making up your mouth, make way for the eyebrow pencil and blush, the perfect combo to get the perfect lip colour. It may seem crazy and counterintuitive and yet, it is indeed the makeup tip that is currently buzzing on the Chinese social network.  In fact, TikTok users have been seeking out and trying all kinds of combinations of various products to come up with the perfect effect. And demand is such that the hashtag #lipcombo has to date racked up some 330 million views. It’s something that cosmetic brands should take into account. Is it possible that there aren’t enough lipstick shades on earth?  What a shame! Fortunately, TikTokers are here to remedy that, and make the greatest number of people benefit from their wonderful finds on a daily basis. For lack of having found the ideal lipstick colour in stores or through pure joy of creating custom mixes, some users have created it with the help of some totally unexpected beauty products. A touch of eyebrow pencil, a dose of blush, a slick of gloss, and that’s it! That’s the formula that is currently seducing the thousands, or rather, millions of beauty addicts on the social network.  The trick is simple. Just trace the outline of the lips with the eyebrow pencil — in place of the lip pencil, far too banal — then apply a touch of blush to lips. The final step is to blend it all together with a gloss for a lush, tinted lip look. Some users have already twisted this beauty tip, seen millions of times on the social network favoured by Gen Z and millennials, using a Beauty Blender to apply the blush.  But it’s not necessarily a good idea, especially if you already use it on your skin, considering the thousands of bacteria that could be there. Using your finger to apply is also very common and low in risk as long as you wash your hands, of course!