The Mumbai Indians won the Indian Premier League three times between 2017 and 2020 but missed out last year, and decided over the weekend that 18-year-old Dewald Brevis might be the missing ingredient they need to return to the podium in the world’s richest cricket tournament. And Mumbai were willing to pay Brevis about R6 million at the IPL Auction this weekend to play for them, even though he has played just one senior level T20 game, scoring 23 off 25 balls for the Northerns Titans against the Free State Knights at the weekend.  But Brevis has just come off an outstanding Junior World Cup, where he scored the most runs in the history of the event and was named player of the tournament despite South Africa’s early exit. ALSO READ: SA’s U-19 batting star Dewald Brevis: Four things you need to know The star quality of other South Africans was confirmed as Kagiso Rabada was bought by the Punjab Kings for around R18.7 million, veteran Faf du Plessis goes to Bangalore Royal Challengers for R14.2 million, and Quinton de Kock was picked up by the new Lucknow Super Giants franchise for R13.7 million.  Anrich Nortje is South Africa’s other big IPL earner, having been retained by Delhi Capitals for R13.15 million. David Miller was bought by the Gujarat Titans, another new franchise, for R6 million, but needs to mend his reputation as a finisher in the IPL because he was only auctioned off in the closing hours on Sunday, having gone unsold on the first day. Lungi Ngidi, who has shown lately he is on the mend from all his injury problems, was also only picked up late on Sunday, going to Delhi Capitals for R1 million. New sensation Marco Jansen picked up a healthy R8.5 million price tag from Hyderabad Sunrisers, while Aiden Markram’s growing reputation as a T20 player saw him fetch R5.3 million from the same team. There was joy for Rassie van der Dussen (Rajasthan Royals, R2 million) and Dwaine Pretorius (Chennai Super Kings, R1 million) as they both gained their first IPL contracts. But the IPL’s baleful attitude towards foreign spinners was again highlighted by the fact Tabraiz Shamsi, one of the world’s best T20 bowlers, failed to secure a buyer.