A glance at today’s Kenilworth card indicates that trainer Candice Bass-Robinson and stable jockey Aldo Domeyer are the people to follow. Bar a few narrow misses on Cape Town Met Day, including in the Grade 1 Cape Flying Championship, both are well accustomed to the Kenilworth winners’ enclosure and should make several visits there on the eight-race card. Get all your horse racing news and information for Wednesday, 9 February 2022, as found in Racing Express, by clicking here. The opening two races feature a host of unraced horses and one gets the impression from the from the trainers’ remarks in ComputaForm that while there are a number of talented runners among them, none of them looks a standout bet. In that case, it is always better to stick to runners with experience and that will point bettors to the Bass-Robinson-trained pair. Philosophise has run two promising races over 1000m and the extra 100m stepping up to 1100m in Race 1 should pave the way for this daughter of The United States to open her account. Domeyer partnered Bass-Robinson’s charge to a third-place finish last time out and retains the ride. Querari colt Charlie Malone defied a market drift to finish an encouraging second on debut behind a highly regarded newcomer. He stayed on well in the closing stages of that 1000m contest, suggesting the step up to 1100m, with natural improvement likely, should be to his liking in Race 2. Domeyer was aboard the wellbred two-year-old on that occasion and it is no surprise that he continues the partnership. Stablemate Silent War also filled the runner-up berth last time out and should go one better when he reappears over the same course and distance in Race 4 over 1600m. Domeyer has steered Dragonfly to both his career wins and a return to sprinting for this son of What A Winter in Race 6 over 1100m should bring about a return to form after this three-year-old gelding disappointed over 1400m at his last start. Get all your horse racing news and information for Wednesday, 9 February 2022, as found in Racing Express, by clicking here. But he did win his previous race over 1500m and has been reported to have made a respiratory noise during those races. As a result, it could pay to go with Piet Botha’s charge Ragnar Lothbrok, who won well last time, and will have Richard Fourie in the irons.