With the United Rugby Championship taking a break, the Currie Cup returns with some cracking matches this weekend, including the Lions hosting the Sharks at Ellis Park on Saturday. It is a massive encounter for the home side as they sit bottom of the table after two games without a win, while the Sharks have won both of their games and are one of the form teams in the competition. Adding to the pressure on the Lions is the fact the union has not managed to pick up a win in any competition this year, with the URC side also losing their four matches. ALSO READ:  Lions boss on Leinster challenge: ‘Just look at their record’ “It’s kind of mixed emotions for us. The guys are excited to get back on the field again but there are also a few nerves as well,” admitted Lions Currie Cup captain Asenathi Ntlabakanye. “We obviously know the state that the union is in, we haven’t won a game this year. So the guys are excited and looking forward to the match against the Sharks, but we also really want to get a win to get our campaign up and running.” After a promising showing away against Western Province in their opening match of the Currie Cup, the young and inexperienced Lions were exposed in their second at home against the Pumas, going down heavily. However, it was arguably the perfect experience for the young guns as they were able to assess where they are in terms of other teams in the competition and they have since had a good three week break to fix some of those problems and get ready for the coming challenges. “It has been a really good three weeks for us as a team. I think we really needed the time together on and off the field. It has been phenomenal on the training field and we have worked on a few things we needed to address,” explained Ntlabakanye. “It was good to get those two early games in before this break to see exactly where we are as a team. As much as those losses were hard to take, I think they were very good lessons for us and prepared us well for the Sharks coming up this weekend. “I think the mindset of the guys has completely changed and we are fully ready for the challenge.” In other Currie Cup games on the weekend, the Griquas host Western Province in Kimberley on Friday night and the table topping Cheetahs travel to Mbombela (formerly Nelspruit) to take on the Pumas on Saturday afternoon.