Many of Mzansi’s public figures were definitely in the spirit of love this Valentine’s Day week as they took to social media to share their gorgeous and saucy Valentine’s Day photo shoots.  Businesswoman and socialite Shauwn Mkhize were not left behind in the trend, posting a picture as well as a video from the photoshoot she took to celebrate the international day of love.  The entrepreneur wore a red bodysuit which had two long, red trains running from each side.  She paired her bodysuit with an elaborate flower crown and red, platform chunky block heels.  In the caption of the post, MaMkhize thanked her followers for all the love and support they had given her, and she wished each and every one of her followers a happy and blessed Valentine’s Day.  “February is all about love and today I’m wishing each and every person a Happy Valentines Day. “To my Insta family, thank you for the love that you have always [shown] me. I appreciate it from the bottom of my heart. To those who are “Valentine-less”, I am sending you love, flowers, and kisses,” said MaMkhize in the caption of her post.  ALSO READ: Tamia Mpisane finally confirms pregnancy rumours MaMkhize’s daughter-in-law, Tamia Mpisane also took to social media to spread some love with her own sexy  Valentine’s Day photoshoot.  Tamia was dressed in a pink wrap-around cloth that covered her chest, thighs, and bottom legs, but showed off her adorable baby bump.  “Happy Valentine’s Day,” said Tamia in the caption of her post.  Tamia recently confirmed the rumours she was pregnant with Andile’s child by posting a picture from her maternity shoot on social media to announce the news.   The soon-to-be mom said in the caption of her post she was excited to meet her baby, and that because this would be her first child, this new journey would be a learning curve for her and her baby.  “Oh how I can’t wait to meet you. One day when you get to see this, I want you to know just how precious you are to me. From the moment I knew about you, I fell insanely in love with you. “You are my first baby and this new chapter is going to be a learning curve for both of us. But I promise to give YOU the best of me. I’m not perfect but my love for you is and will forever be perfect,” said Tamia in the caption of her post.