Orlando Pirates’ managed to saunter into the next round of the Nedbank Cup following a 1-0 victory over AmaZulu FC at the Orlando Stadium on Sunday.ALSO READ: Sundowns annihilate Richards Bay to reach next round of Nedbank Cup A second half strike from Deon Hotto was all the Buccaneers could register in a game that saw Usuthu’s defender Tapelo Xoki miss a penalty,  but there weren’t really plenty of real goal scoring opportunities created from both sides. But, the Buccaneers should have easily taken the lead as early as the 12th minute, but Ntsako Mabusela couldn’t capitalise from a well-placed cross from Goodman Mosele from the left side with a slight back-heel coming from Hotto, but the former Golden Arrows midfielder Mabusela’s shot wasn’t powerful enough to trouble Veli Mothwa at goals. Usuthu had a penalty shout in the 21st minute after Mosele handled the ball inside the box, but the referee waved play on, leaving AmaZulu players stunned by the decision. But, there weren’t enough chances from both ends to try and break the deadlock, as the game went into the break goalless. Two minutes into the second half, Augustine Mulenga set-up Luvuyo Memela nicely for a shot just outside the box, but the winger couldn’t put his ball on target. In the 52nd minute, it would be the Buccaneers who would go on to take the lead after a brilliant one two by Deon Hotto and Thabang Monare, which saw the Namibian finishing up the play smoothly by finding the back of the net. Pirates technical team brought in Zakhele Lepasa in place of Kwame Peprah after the Ghanaian seemed to be struggling, while Usuthu also made some changes by bringing on new signing Abraham Majok to try an equaliser. Bucs’ defender Olisa Ndah had a glorious opportunity to extend the lead in the 76th minute, but the Nigerian international couldn’t connect well with the ball. With 10 minutes remaining of regular time, Usuthu three more men upfront in their quest to save the game, but that almost cost them as Pirates’ caught them on a counter-attack, but winger Thembinkosi Lorch wasn’t able to beat Bafana Bafana shot-stopper Mothwa. With two minutes remaining , Usuthu had a chance to equalise after getting a penalty, but Siyabonga Mpontshane was well on form to deny Tapelo Xoki, leaving the Buccaneers to march all the way to the next round. Pirates will now shift their focus onto the Caf Confederations Cup with a clash against JS Saoura in their first game of the group stages at home on13 February.