Alfa Romeo will expand its line-up by another model to four when it introduces a small compact SUV below the Tonale in 2024. While rumoured for a while, the official confirmation by Alfa Romeo, boss Jean-Phillipe Imparato, ends months and years of speculation about the newcomer, which will ride on the PSA-era developed CMP platform, reportedly carry the Brennero moniker, have its assembly taken place at the Tychy Plant in Poland that currently builds the Fiat 500, and spawn a new “junior” Jeep below the Renegade. “It will be Alfa’s first full-electric vehicle, but it will also offer versions with combustion engines. We’ll launch our first electric-only vehicle in 2025. Starting that year all new models will be 100 percent electric, worldwide,” Imparato told Automotive News Europe. Aside from the Brennero, whose name refers to a mountain pass in Italy like the Stelvio and Tonale, Imparato also hinted at the return of a hatchback to replace Giulietta, before quickly adding that such model had not yet been approved as its due reveal is set for 2027-2028. “We also have to look at what level of battery range will be enabled by the technologies available at that time,” Imparato said. Last year, it was reported the MiTo, which ended production four year ago, had been tipped for reintroduction as early as next year, though nothing of it has since emerged. ALSO READ: Alfa Romeo thumbs-up small SUV positioned below Tonale In addition to the Brennero, Imparato confirmed that Alfa Romeo will, for now, stick with diesel engines when it makes the Tonale available with an oil-burner “where we can sell it”, admitting that certain markets in Europe, mainly Italy, still relies on diesel to a certain extent. He however stated that, “Diesels will probably disappear in Europe with the arrival of Euro 7 regulations [which could take effect as early as 2025]. We won’t invest on diesels to comply with Euro 7”. The former Peugeot boss further revealed that its flagship engine, the 2.9-litre bi-turbo V6 used in the Giulia QV and Stelvio Quadrifoglio, won’t be making it beyond 2027 when Alfa Romeo shifts its focus entirely towards electric vehicles.  Prior to this, Imparato confirmed that the Giorgio platform, which underpins both the Giulia and Stelvio, as well as the Jeep Grand Cherokee/Grand Cherokee L and the incoming Maserati Grecale, won’t be used for any other model due to its inability to accept electrification. Instead, it, together with the majority with the mainly PSA platforms, will be phased-out over time in favour of the newly developed Stellantis STLA architectures due for introduction from 2024. “Starting in 2027, we only plan to sell full-electric vehicles globally. That’s our strategy is based on the current proposed legislation in Europe that would require a 60 to 70 percent CO2 reduction by 2030. As we can’t afford to keep two separate product lines, we have to make a choice,” Imparato said. Expect the emergence of more details relating to the respective models, including the possible revival of others, over the coming weeks and months.