The FIH Pro League that will be hosted in Potchefstroom from Tuesday provides the South African men’s team with the ideal avenue to measure their progress against the top hockey nations in the world, according to national coach Garreth Ewing. South Africa will come up against India, the Netherlands and Germany, all inside the top six on the world rankings, in the tournament that runs through to February 21 and features 14 matches, eight of them involving the hosts. “It’s an amazing opportunity. It will be incredibly tough, but we’ve got to play against the very best in the world if we are going to find out what we need to grow as a team,” Ewing said. “You’re never going to play against teams in the top eight of the rankings without them being strong outfits, but teams in the Pro League do mix up their line-ups a bit. “It’s often used an opportunity to expose new players because it’s considered the beginning of the next Olympic cycle – and that’s the same as what I’m doing – but the top sides will have their usual superstars here as well.” pic.twitter.com/FMNWuxDQhC— SA Hockey (@SA_Hockey) January 28, 2022 South Africa’s squad will include three players who have graduated from the SA U-21 team into the senior game – Clayton Saker, Connor Beauchamp and Sihle Ngubane. And the prodigies that are the Cassiem brothers – Dayaan and Mustapha – are both back in the fold. The hosts, however, will be without regular captain Tim Drummond. Because hockey is strictly speaking an amateur sport in South Africa, many of the players don’t have much leeway when it comes to taking leave from their full-time jobs and the veteran midfielder has had to declare himself unavailable. Fellow Olympian Keenan Horne takes over the captaincy, with Tuks star Bili Ntuli, a member of the national team since 2015, his deputy. “There are a few changes, but we have the bulk of the Africa Cup squad that won the title last month, and we’re taking a 23-man squad to Potchefstroom because we have quite a few games in a short space of time,” Ewing said. “Leave has been a big issue for some guys, but that’s the nature of the sport in this country. So we are going to experience some serious pressures, but it’s more about the experience of playing really hard matches than the results.”