Supporters of Katlego Maboe have encouraged the scandal-ridden television presenter to continue his legal pursuit against organisations he believes ruined his reputation. Maboe was embroiled in a cheating scandal that rocked South Africa two years ago.  In the aftermath of the event, Maboe lost almost everything he had – including his career.  On 27 January 2022,  the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court ruled that there were no grounds for Maboe’s former partner, Monique Muller to obtain a protection order against him. “The court has not made a finding of acts of domestic violence that were allegedly perpetrated against Ms Muller, and as such, the matter has been dismissed,” the court judgment read.  ALSO READ: Monique Muller responds to Katlego Maboe’s statement Muller implored journalists to report the facts, explaining there was an agreement between the parties before and “there have been no new acts of domestic violence since the application of the IPO,” she wrote on her Instagram stories.  She was referencing the interim protection order she obtained against Maboe. “This is the correct outcome as per the court ruling,” she added. As expected there was a massive response to the judgment which instituted a debate as to how brands and employers should handle cheating and alleged gender-based violence scandals such as this one. Maboe lost his job at Expresso and OUTsurance cut ties with him after a video recorded by Muller went viral on social media.  Maboe confessed to cheating and other allegations levelled against him.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The presenter hasn’t been seen on television screens ever since and there are some calls for him to return.  He is going ahead with legal action against Women For Change founder Sabrina Walter and Dr Janet van Eeden in her capacity as chairperson for the South African Film and Television Awards (Saftas).  The Saftas decided to rescind his nomination for best TV presenter,  based on the domestic violence allegations made against him and the social media backlash.  People questioned why the film and TV body would nominate a man who at the time had domestic violence allegations against him.  There was an argument that this judgment should evaluate the importance of social media in a court of public opinion and the impacts of “cancel culture”.  ALSO READ: Katlego Maboe wins court case against Monique Muller