Lions utility back Tiaan Swanepoel is happy to be back on the field after a long injury layoff and is hoping to help his side improve their form in the United Rugby Championship, starting this weekend against the Bulls at Loftus. Swanepoel was injured during last year’s Rainbow Cup, and though he was expected to be out for only a couple of months, he made his return less than two weeks ago off the bench against the Sharks. “I was out for quite a while and I didn’t expect to be out for that long, but I am glad to be back,” Swanepoel said. “I am at full strength again. I just need a bit more game time to get fully match fit. “I was supposed to be ready last year to go overseas with the team for the start of the URC, but then I wasn’t ready, so I am happy to finally be playing in it now, and playing in this competition is a massive opportunity for me. “I have felt very good being back. Obviously the results haven’t been what the team wanted, but it was good to be back on the field, and though I didn’t get that much game time, hopefully I will get more in the coming weeks.” ALSO READ: Lions desperate for a win before heading to Ireland, says Fourie The Lions have lost their last two games on the trot, both at home against the Sharks and Bulls, and they are targeting a reversal of fortunes in Pretoria. Swanepoel’s last appearance at Loftus ended up in him suffering his most recent injury and he will be hoping for a much better outcome for himself and the team this weekend. “We have been working hard this week to make a mental switch to the way the team was at the end of last year,” he said. “We just didn’t pitch up for the Bulls last weekend but I think we will be ready for them and will put in a much better performance this weekend. “The Bulls and Lions is always a massive rivalry and it’s always special playing at Ellis Park or Loftus, so it is going to be another great experience.” ALSO READ: Lions must ‘man up’ against Bulls, says defence coach Fourie Looking ahead to the rest of the season, Swanepoel is aiming to improve each week and get himself back to the level he was at before his long-term injury. “My focus now is to get back to the form I was in last year before I got injured. I was really enjoying my rugby and playing well, so I want to get back to that level again,” he said. “Getting my starting position back is the first thing and I think I can do that by getting more game time, so I just have to keep my head down, work hard and put in the performances and hopefully it will all go well.”