This week’s episode of Date My Family followed Goitseone’s journey to find love in Mzansi’s favourite family dating show.  The 26-year-old graduate in marketing and part-time model described herself as outgoing and loves spending time with people. Gotiseone is looking for someone with a great personality, a good communicator, handsome and considerate.  Her first date was with Percy Ndlovu’s family. The 25 years old lives in Vosloorus and is a chef, artist and photographer. But Percy’s deal-breaker is if the person has a child. Ironically, he is also a parent. Percy wasn’t impressed with Goitseone’s physique, saying the tall model wasn’t his type. He added that American mogul Kim Kardashian is his preference.  ALSO READ: ‘His hair keeps changing’ – Viewers react to latest ‘Date My Family’ episode It seemed one of Percy’s friends was more interested in Goitseone than him, as he continued to point out things he didn’t like about her, such as calling her a “snob” and the way she ate her food. Gotiseone seemed uncomfortable with the family and some of the sexual questions they asked.  The second family represented 34-year-old Nathi from Limpopo. The police official also got viewers talking, as many wondered what his job title meant, was he just a police officer?  But he has added job titles such as being a wedding planner, a program director for functions and weddings. Nathi’s first impression of the bachelorette wasn’t so positive. He pointed out Goitseone’s skinny frame, and said if she chose him, “she was going to get big.”  The family also commented about her weight, saying she doesn’t look like she eats, as viewers deemed their comments, as a form of body shaming.  His family did confirm that Nathi was a police officer and for the bachelorette, she wasn’t sure if this was okay for her. Nathi also has a child, but Goitseone said she would be happy if fathers stayed with their baby’s mothers.  Nathi’s family thought it was too soon for Goitseone to start dating again because she’s been single for six months.  But the age difference, which is nine years, was also a negative for Nathi’s family who felt a relationship between them wouldn’t work.  The third family represented Magaiva, The most interesting part of the visit was the surprise visit of the cat in the home, which jumped on Goisetone as she was sitting and eating.  Date My Familyviewers were not happy with the selection of bachelors for Goitseone, as many expressed their disappointment throughout the episode.  In the end, Goitseone picked Nathi however the two won’t be going on a second date after he revealed he has four children with four different women.  But the audience didn’t believe his story.