This past week saw viewers of the Showmax telenovela The Wife get one more episode than usual and that seems to have sated their increasingly ravenous appetite for the show. A lot happened this week and despite it all, viewers seem to be most disappointed with Qhawe after he gave in to his basic instinct.Qhawe (played by Kwenzo Ngcobo) is quite the fan favourite among viewers of The Wife who find him incredibly attractive. Fans of the book series also hold the character in high esteem. Episode 37 of The Wife picks up right where last week’s episodes left off – in the wake of the aftermath of Mandisa’s actions which essentially messed up everything the Zulu brothers have been working towards thus far.  Elsewhere, MaNtsundu and her husband continue their shenanigans, much to the confusion and annoyance of viewers.  We also see a guilty Mqhele overcompensating once again for beating Hlomu.  Elsewhere, Nkosana frantically searches for Mandisa as she makes an unholy alliance with an unlikely acquaintance. She then surprisingly returns home after being on the run in fear of what the Zulu brothers would do to her for burning their money.   The surprises don’t end there as she bizarrely presents Hlomu with a “gruesome” gift putting the family in an even worse predicament than the one they found themselves in after she burnt the money.  Mandisa’s actions also see Hlomu get dragged deeper into the family’s criminal dealings.  YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE: ‘Didn’t have to bastardise Dudu’s work like this’ – viewers respond to new episode teasers of ‘The Wife’ Not ones to let go of a grudge, we see the Majola brothers resurface to bear witness to the Zulu brothers’ latest crime – helping Mandisa cover up her dark deeds.  Viewers also got to see Nkosana dealing with the aftermath of realising that he may never see his dream of getting his love, Zandile, out of jail. All this while Qhawe remains on hand to comfort his brother and look after him. Up until this point, Nkosana has always been in control and poised so seeing him in this state was quite a change of pace.  Sandile also makes his way back into the picture, much to Mqhele’s annoyance.  The show seems to be taking a very dark turn as Mqhele seeks to remove Sandile from their lives permanently. Mqhele’s actions break Hlomu even further, though the show’s lead doesn’t seem to have reached her breaking point yet. It has, however, pushed her to be more honest with the rest of the family about the nature of her relationship with her husband.Fans of the original book series have called for an end to Hlomu and Mqhele’s on-screen relationship as it is nothing like the couple’s relationship in the books.  Some have even joked that her toxic marriage is turning her into Brooke Logan (a soapie character famed for promiscuity).  Despite finding out what their brother did, the Zulu brothers swiftly move on to their next goal – a new plan to get Zandile out of jail.  This week’s series of episodes ended with Hlomu finding a new lover in the form of her husband’s brother, Qhawe, after he killed her ex-boyfriend. We also got to see Zandile finally make her way out of jail, albeit in a way that differs from Nkosana’s original plan.