Ballet dancers playing an intense, rhythmic game of chess that also happens to resemble life, a refreshing Afro-fusion performance which tells the story of journeying back home, and an exploration of the afterlife – that, and more is what Joburg Ballet’s new season, Evolve will entail. This year, Joburg Ballet celebrates its 21st year of existence, 21 Years that certainly had its challenges, but also many successes. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The founding members, now also referred to as the Brave Six, were responsible for the start of what we know as Joburg Ballet today. Although ballet has a long history in the city of Johannesburg, Joburg Ballet’s beginnings can be traced back to the establishment of South African Ballet Theatre (SABT) in 2001. This followed the closure of the State Theatre Pretoria and its performing companies, which included The State Theatre Ballet (previously known as PACT Ballet). The Brave Six (Dirk Badenhorst, Kimbrian Bergh, Karen Beukes, Fiona Budd, Iain MacDonald and Angela Malan) started a company together and began to present performances. They had the determination and a supportive board, but no funding. 21 years later, the company is known as Joburg Ballet in recognition of the grant awarded to them by the City of Johannesburg since 2013. According to Joburg Ballet’s CEO, Esther Nasser, “the fact that Joburg Ballet still stands today is testimony to the commitment and dedication of the many artists, administrators and fundraisers who ensures the art of ballet survives.” She believes that Joburg Ballet will flourish as a true South African ballet company with its own identity with which the global village will want to engage. In pictures: Joburg Ballet is back and it’s still beautiful The ballet company kicks off its 21st anniversary celebrations with a brand-new season called Evolve, which was to be presented in 2021, but had been postponed due to Covid-19. This celebration of dance, with its unique costumes so true to the brand and to South Africa, will present eight performances at the Joburg Theatre from 25 March to 3 April. The works include choreography from some of the company’s own dancers, blending the new and the classical with four ballets – three of them being world premieres – as well as a glittering showpiece from the classical repertoire. The works include: Says company Artistic Director, Iain MacDonald: “Joburg Ballet has provided a career detination for South African dancers and training and dance education facilities for communities across our city. We have built a company that has welcomed new choreographic voices and continue to do so as we dance into our third decade. We have upheld the great principles and traditions of classical ballet while at the same time exploring new traditions and dance styles that are shaping theatre dance in our time.” Joburg Ballet’s Honorary Life Patron, Annzie Hancock says: “Things have changed, dancers have left to further their careers overseas and in other fields. Those who have continued to dance have been well received abroad; the reputation of their training goes before them.” She says that the more contemporary works took her a while to enjoy, “but I have now accepted that one has to move forward to survive and what impresses me is the talent within the company that we are now seeing. Dancers are being challenged to choreograph pieces of their own which are very good and exciting to watch.” The proudly South African ballet company may have evolved with the times, but they also know where their roots are. And, its bums on seats that will ensure its survival. Bookings for Evolve are now open, with tickets available from R200 per person (or even R100 per person on Wednesday, 30 March).  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.