Former Blitzboks star Seabelo Senatla, enjoying one of his best seasons in the 15s game for the Stormers, is desperate to realise his dream of playing for the Springboks. Senatla reached the pinnacle of the sevens game in 2016 when he was named World Rugby Sevens Player of the Year, and he went on to drop the short format to focus on his goal of representing the Boks. Things haven’t exactly gone to plan for Senatla, as he has struggled to establish himself as a regular starter in the Stormers team over the past few seasons due to injury and inconsistent form. ALSO READ: ‘A work in progress’: Stormers shake off favourites tag However, since returning from his latest injury setback in December, he has started every United Rugby Championship match for the Stormers while running in a host of tries. He has scored four tries in four matches, including a superb chip and gather in last week’s encounter with the Sharks, and if he can keep himself injury free he will be aiming to add plenty to that tally over the rest of the season. “Every time we get him there (back to his best), there’s either been an injury or Covid-19 issues or the Olympics or a suspension,” explained Stormers coach John Dobson. “I thought that was an international-level performance on Saturday. I know what is driving Seabelo, and if you know Seabelo, you know that he is really driven.” Senatla, who puts in a lot of extra work, will be looking to continue his superb run of form when he lines up against the Lions at Ellis Park on Saturday. And after a trip to Connacht in a couple of weeks, he will be back in Cape Town for the Stormers’ home fixture run, looking to take advantage of it and get the Bok selectors to take notice. “This is a guy who gets somebody to help him practice poaching in his garden. He is a consummate professional, and he is so desperate to be a guy who successfully transitions from sevens to fifteens. On that level, he has every possibility,” admitted Dobson. “He just needs a sustained run, and I’m quite excited. We’ve got those home games at Cape Town Stadium in March and April, and in those conditions, it could be really good for him and maybe he will get into the international frame. “The trajectory is looking really good, and he’s absolutely desperate.”