TV personality Molemo “Jub Jub” Marohaanye has finally apologised to Kelly Khumalo in a lengthy letter posted to his Instagram on Thursday, and his actions have sparked a discussion about how sincere he was in doing so. “I am writing this letter to accept and own up to my mistakes,” reads the beginning of the letter. He then proceeded to address Kelly Khumalo by name and also called her the mother of his child. He apologised for any distress or hurt he may have caused her with what he said during his December 2021 interview with MacG, as well as for any backlash she may have suffered thereafter. “Kelly, I am really sorry, I really did not mean for things to get here between you and I. My comments were taken out of context, however it still doesn’t make it right.” He then asked Kelly not think he is only apologising because of a recent article which stated that his former employers had issued him with an ultimatum; “apologise to Kelly if you want your job back.” “I had plans to make things right with you and I will still do that outside of this public domain. I am hoping and most importantly, praying that you and I will one day reach an amicable solution to co-parent our champ,” added Jub Jub in reference to their son, Christian. He then begged for an opportunity to be part of Christian’s life. Jub Jub also explained that he only felt it was right to apologise publicly as he had humiliated her publicly. “I am not, in any way, defending my actions. You are the mother of my son and I have a lot of respect for you.” He also apologised to the women of South Africa, and said he hopes to one day earn their forgiveness. In the interim, Jub Jub said he will be going for sensitivity training and will continue to work on improving himself, and asked that he be granted privacy to do so. His apology comes months after he inferred that she used witchcraft – something that is often frowned upon in most communities and can even get someone killed. “Everyone who deals with Kelly uyafa (they die) or something bad happens, we all know Kelly uses umuthi (witchcraft)” he said.Although the therm umuthi refers to traditional medicine, it has become a colloquialism for witchcraft, as certain types of muthi are used by spiritually gifted individuals for nefarious reasons.  Apologising because your income is under threat is not an sincere apology.— Sentletse (@Sentletse) February 10, 2022 What's more amusing is men went from siding with Jub Jub calling Kelly and Amanda all kinds of names, to now applauding Jub Jub for being a real man and apologizing. https://t.co/1bpceZeNkE— Nomfundo (@ndomfuh_1) February 10, 2022 "Everyone who deals with Kelly uyafa or something bad happens, we all know Kelly uses umuthi" – Jub JubMonths later…."Things were taken out of context" – Jub Jub— South Africa is HELL (@Nampree) February 10, 2022