The Lions head into their United Rugby Championship game against the Bulls at Loftus on Saturday with a change of attitude that will hopefully bring a change in their fortunes. After a thumping loss against the Bulls at Ellis Park last week the Lions had a hard look at themselves in the build up, changing their mindset and some playing personnel in an effort to refresh the team for the return fixture at Loftus. “I think there are two points to highlight. The chance to redeem ourselves from that performance, that in itself should be a change of attitude and then having guys like Stean (Pienaar), Manny (Rass) and Tiaan (Swanepoel) getting their opportunity,” explained Lions head coach Ivan van Rooyen. “You can see the excitement and that they haven’t played for the team for a while, so change does bring that excitement and I am looking forward to see what the opportunity brings for them.” ALSO READ: White: ‘Bulls players must hit same high standards again against Lions’ While the Lions having made six changes to their starting team, the Bulls have made only one as they look for consistency as they aim to continue their recovery with another win against their neighbours. The Lions, however, know how important this match is as they enter a tough run of three games including this weekend’s, with them desperately needing a couple of positive results in the coming games. “With the next three games we have got two away games, the Bulls at Loftus and Leinster in Ireland, while we play the Stormers at home, so the intention will always be to get a win in every game we play,” said Van Rooyen. “But I think realistically if we can manage between eight and 10 points in the next three games that will be a great effort from our side.” Following the Leinster match in Ireland the Lions will return to SA and will host most of the URC teams at Ellis Park over the following two months and they will be eager to head into that home run of fixtures with some good momentum, which they will hopefully start with against the Bulls.