Showmax’s conquest to create and push out as much local content is broadening its horizon to the wider African continent.  The streaming platform announced that they commissioned its first-ever original title in Ghana called ENO, which will premiere on Showmax in March 2022, a statement read.  The series is set in the capital Accra and it follows Abena Baafi, a single mother who is determined to stir her three daughters in certain directions to find rich suitors.  But her daughters aren’t easy to persuade and have minds of their own. The story will see the mother’s dream become a nightmare for one of her daughters.  The ENOcast is an African powerhouse that features Gloria Osei-Sarfo (The Perfect Picture – Ten Years Later) as Abena, with Miss Malaika 2018 Mariam Owusu-Poku, Ghana Movies Awards nominee Esi Hammond (Rumours) and Emelia Asiedu as her three daughters. ALSO READ: ‘I thought I’d heard and seen it all’: Rian van Heerden on ‘Sex in Afrikaans’ This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The 13 part series is created by award-winning filmmakers Shirley Frimpong-Manso and Ken Attoh as director and producer respectively.  The production company is Sparrow Studios, with a couple of other production partners from Ghana who have been responsible for big films in the country.  Shirley says what drew her to the script was the female-driven narrative. “In spite of the fact that the main character, Abena Baafi, is described as a woman who is cunning and even greedy, I love her zeal to succeed against all the odds.  “The fact that she is determined to see her daughters make better choices than she has, shows me a mother’s honest attempt to right her past wrongs through the children she so dearly loves, even if she doesn’t get it right every single time.* Showmax has yet to give an exact date but ENO will premiere next month.