Actress and TV icon Dr Lillian Dube is adding another title to her illustrious career, that of being a co-host in an anticipated cooking show on DStv. Honey TV announced on Monday that cooking reality TV show 7 Colours, proclaiming that it will be Africa’s biggest cooking show, will be coming to South African screens soon.  The show is inspired by South African favourite meals called seven colours which are usually made on Sundays or special occasions. The two celebrity hosts, Dube and Moshe Ndiki will go into the heart of South African homes to see how people really make their Sunday kos.  In every episode, the families, friends and loved ones will show off their cooking skills and be rated on the dish they cook as well as the plating execution of their favourite local and home dishes.  Dube, who has appeared on Soul City, Cry My Beloved Country and a few of Leon Schuster movies is excited about this new show. ALSO READ: Meet ‘MasterChef South Africa’ top 20 contestants “I love going into people’s homes, interacting with them and seeing what their plates look like,” she said in a statement, adding her favourite moments were being on set with media personality and comedian Ndiki  His hosting skills have gained him much notoriety in shows such as Uyang’thanda Na? and You Promised to Marry Me. Ndiki’s sense of humour, punchy one-liners and infectious laugh are likely to bring many smiles to viewers’ faces.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. “Not only am I working with Lillian Dube, [but] I also experienced meeting the different contestants and how we are all excited when we are shooting,” he said.  Ndiki has dabbled in the food industry, releasing his own spice range in April 2021, called Moshe’s Kitchen. Honey TV head of content Zinzi Velelo says 7 Colours will showcase the best of SA culture and the show is “laid back” and will bring some joy on our screens.  7 Colours premieres on Thursday 17 February at 4.30pm on DStv channel 173.