All eyes will be on Gauteng on Saturday as the four South African teams in the United Rugby Championship set their sights squarely on climbing up the standings as they take the field in their fourth consecutive round of derbies. The Lions will host the Stormers in Johannesburg at 3pm, while the Bulls host the Sharks in Pretoria at 5.05pm. The South African franchises have the luxury of a game or two in hand against most of their Europe-based rivals, and victories for the Stormers, Sharks and Bulls in particular could see them possibly make the jump into the upper half of the log. The Stormers will provide a stern test for the Lions at Emirates Airline Park after showing signs of finding their form with two wins and a draw in their three matches this year, but the Johannesburgers will be desperate to make the most of their home ground advantage after coming off three successive defeats. ALSO READ: Seabelo Senatla ‘desperate’ to be noticed by Bok selectors The Capetonians are currently the best placed South African team in 10th position on the standings with 18 points, and victory could see them catapult up to four places up the table. The Bulls, meanwhile, will look to build on their two victories in a row when they host the Sharks at Loftus Versfeld, while the Durbanites will look to bounce back from their defeat against the Stormers last week and a draw two weeks ago. Both teams are currently tied on 16 log points, with the Sharks one position ahead in 11th place because of their superior points’ difference, meaning the winning side will get a handy nudge up the standings. Vincent Tshituka at flank and Burger Odendaal at inside centre are back in the Lions side for their outing against the Stormers, while Jordan Hendrikse is also back from injury and on the replacements bench. Stormers coach John Dobson meanwhile has made three changes to his backline with Sergeal Petersen starting on the right wing, Damian Willemse at inside centre and Paul de Wet at scrumhalf, while Angelo Davids, Dan du Plessis and Herschel Jantjies are all set to make an impact from the replacements bench. “Playing mid-afternoon in February up in Joburg we know that we will have to be switched-on and accurate for 80 minutes,” said Dobson.  Bulls boss Jake White named David Kriel (fullback) and Cornal Hendricks (right wing) in the only changes to the backline in the starting XV, while the inclusion of Gerhard Steenekamp (prop) is the only change in the pack that started against the Lions last week. “The Sharks are always a formidable opponent, and we will have to be at our best when we face a side that is so full of talent,” said White. “This will be a great opportunity for youngsters like Elrigh Louw to be able to go up against an inspirational character like Siya (Kolisi – Springbok captain). Then you also have players like Lukhanyo Am, Makazole Mapimpi, Bongi Mbonambi and a host of others in that Sharks team whom our guys will want to measure themselves against.” Sharks boss Sean Everitt has made three changes to his team for their clash against the Bulls, with Gerbrandt Grobler (lock), Henco Venter (flanker) and Marius Louw (centre) earning starting berths. Grobler will start at lock in place of Ruben van Heerden, while Venter takes over from Jeandre Labuschagne on the side of the scrum. Captain Lukhanyo Am (centre) also moves back to his regular position at outside centre in place of Jeremy Ward.