With the unveiling last year of the facelift Macan, Porsche has introduced a surprise derivative wearing one of its most iconic monikers ever created. A designation more commonly associated with the 911, and more recently the 718 Cayman/Boxster, the Macan T debuts as a sportier version of the entry-level, unbadged Macan powered by the familiar 2.0-litre turbocharged engine. Positioned between said model and the step-up 2.9-litre bi-turbo V6 engine Macan S, the T, which denotes Touring in Porsche-speak, remains mechanically unaltered with output of 195kW/400Nm. Drive continues to go to all four wheels via a seven-speed PDK transmission with top speed rated at 232 km/h and 0-100 km/h over in 6.2 seconds when fitted with the optional Sport Chrono package.  ALSO READ: PICS: Updated Porsche Macan bows with revised exterior and more power In differentiating itself from the Macan, Porsche has subtly tweaked the T with its exterior boasting a gloss black finish to the mirror caps, side blades, trim, badges and tailgate spoiler, model exclusive dark titanium 20-inch alloy wheels, Macan T branding on the mentioned blades and a choice of 13 colours, including the Agate Grey Metallic launch hue. Equipped as standard with the steel sprung Porsche Active Suspension Management that has resulted in a 15 mm lower ride height, as well as a specially reconfigured, rear-wheel biased version of the Porsche Traction Management system, the T also comes with the option of having the Porsche Torque Vectoring Plus system fitted as a first for the 2.0-litre model. Inside, the T becomes the latest model to feature the upgraded 10.9-inch Porsche Communication Management system and revised centre console. Bespoke to it is the multi-function GT steering wheel, sport-tex seats that are heated and electrically adjustable at the front, silver stitching on the steering wheel and seats, the latter featuring the Porsche crest embroidered into the headrests, aluminium inserts on the doors, the Sport Chrono stopwatch on the dashboard, Macan T branded treadplates and the option of the race-tex covered GT Sport steering wheel. Confirmed for South Africa, the Macan T carries a sticker price of R1 190 000, a jump of R140 000 from the Macan, but R81 000 less than the S. The Citizen‘s thought on the Macan can bew viewed here.