If SuperSport United think they are going to walk over Maritzburg United as they have done in their last five meetings, they are in for a big shock, according to Maritzburg defender Brandon Theron. ALSO READ: Seedat reveals Galaxy’s plan to beat Chiefs in Nedbank CupThe latest episode between the coastal and capital city campaigners is set to unfold on Wednesday evening when they meet in the last-32 of the Nedbank Cup. The Harry Gwala Stadium will host the game, and it being the Team of Choice’s home ground, Theron says Matsatsantsa A Pitori will not have it easy against them. “A home game is where the expectations are higher and as players, you don’t want to lose at home. It is like you are letting people come into your home and they take your stuff. Harry Gwala is our graveyard, we want to bury teams here and we don’t want to lose any points at home. We can’t allow anyone to come into our house and bully us,” said Theron.   “We’re about to face one of the giants of the country and it is a big but we are well prepared and ready for this challenge because we want to start on a good note and this will be a good test to see how the second round will turn out to be for us. What’s key for us will be the team spirit, working hard and we have to fight like lions. No game is easy so we have to stay together and remain focused,” he added. This cup game could be easily described as the dress rehearsal of their DStv Premiership date about a week later, where SuperSport will look to advance their top three ambitions, while Ernst Middendorp’s side will look  to plot a way out of the relegation quagmire as they are sitting on 14th position on the log with three points separating them from rock-bottom TS Galaxy. “It is two different games with different magnitudes, the cup game could go on until extra-time or even penalties. The league is our priority because we need points, not to say we will lose focus on any game… we are going out to win both games and from now on, we treat all of our games as cup games.”