Orlando Pirates recorded their second successive win this year after beating Algerian outfit JS Saoura 2-0 in a Caf Confederation Cup tie at the Orlando Stadium in a Group B clash at the Orlando Stadium on Sunday. READ ALSO: Bucs injury list decreases ahead of Caf Confederation Cup fixture Pirates began the year on a great note after booking their spot in the last 16-round of the Nedbank Cup before opening their continental group stages with a victory against The Eagles of Algeria. The Buccaneers had a perfect start into the game after Happy Jele put them in the lead just three minutes into the match after benefitting from a rebound from goalkeeper Zakaria Saidi. The Algerians responded 13 minutes later, after some nice foot-work by Belaid Hamidi saw him unleashing a powerful volley, but Siyabonga Mpontshane made a great save to keep Bucs in the lead. With the game about to go into the break, Saoura almost got their equaliser, but Olisa Ndah was well positioned at the back to clear the danger as Bucs went into half-time in the lead. As Pirates continued to put pressure on the Libyan outfit, a second goal was quick to follow for the South Africans with a beautiful build-up involving Thembinkosi Lorch and Deon Hotto before Bandile Shandu executed the move scoring from close range in the 65th minute to give Bucs a comfortable 2-0 lead. There was a bit of frustration from Saoura players even on their bench, but, that didn’t distract Pirates players as they continued to put pressure on their opponents, but they couldn’t score more goals as they walked away with three points. The result should be a big confidence booster for the Buccaneers, who didn’t lose any home game during this stage of the competition last season, only to be knocked out of the quarter-finals. Pirates now quickly have to take their minds back into domestic football, where they face Golden Arrows in their first DStv Premiership fixtures this year at home on Wednesday. But after that, they have a long trip to Libya, where they will be facing Al-Ittihad on the 20th of February at the Martyrs of February Stadium as fixtures come quick and fast for the Soweto giants.