Have you ever tried peeling a raw egg? The craziest challenge of the moment on TikTok sees users of the Chinese social network do just that, testing their skills and patience along the way. And some have proved successful! How do you like your eggs? Raw seems to be the dish of the day on TikTok, where a new challenge is proving all the rage. The “Egg peel challenge” basically involves peeling an egg – not a hard-boiled egg, but a raw egg.  The hashtag has already notched up more than 15 million views on the social networking site, making it a new hit. However, this unusual challenge is far from simple, and patience is the key to success. Users rise to the challenge armed with implements such as a blackhead remover, tweezers or other random medical instruments.  The goal is to succeed in removing the shell of a raw egg without breaking its membrane. And, if successful, the result is just as bizarre, as users find themselves holding a fragile film-like pouch containing the coveted raw egg. ALSO READ: Daily hacks: How to use rice water to grow and strengthen your hair While the challenge is ultimately pointless, users on TikTok are hungry for more! Live egg peeling videos attract many users, who don’t hesitate to give money in the form of donations to the creators. Some videos are getting millions of views.  Even on Twitter, users are sharing their bewilderment: “accidentally watched a live stream of someone peeling a raw egg for 20 minutes,” reads one tweet. So why is this challenge so popular? Apparently, users are seduced by the fascinating and strangely satisfying aspect of the process, which helps them to relax while watching these videos. The “Egg peel challenge” isn’t the platform’s only egg-related craze. Another popular TikTok challenge involved users testing how gentle their pets could be by giving them a raw egg to hold in their jaws, without breaking. Why do people peel eggs? For many years doctors and dentists have long practiced egg peeling as a way to develop their surgical skills, but for the past two years people who are not in the medical field have tested their concentration and sturdiness by trying out the practice for themselves.  Many people have also expressed that their interest in the practice is because it is somehow oddly satsifying, relaxing, or just fun to do.