When Kaizer Chiefs rehired Stuart Baxter as coach, they were trolled and among the jokes made was that it was a ploy to try and get a trophy. ALSO READ: Seedat reveals Galaxy’s plan to beat Chiefs in Nedbank CupChiefs last won a trophy under Baxter when they hauled a cup and league double.  It was on May 9, 2015 that Amakhosi were crowned league champions, their last official piece of silverware. That was almost seven years ago –  or 2 468 days to be exact – and an unprecedented drought has hit Naturena since then. Since then, Chiefs have had near misses with the most notable being in the Nedbank Cup in 2019 where they lost in the final to then first division campaigners TS Galaxy.  The following year they had a near miss in the league title as well, ceding it to Mamelodi Sundowns on the very last day of league action.   And last year they lost out on the biggest club championship on the continent when they lost to Al Ahly in the Caf Champions League in the final.  And having already lost out on the MTN8 and the chances of wrestling the DStv Premiership title from runaway leaders Sundowns as big as an ant’s nostril, the only chance for Baxter to live up to expectation is to win the Nedbank Cup.  It may not be an expectation from the club that was imposed on Baxter when he took the job for a second stint with rebuilding probably the most important factor, but it is from the fans’ perspective.  “Silverware is the standard that we live by as coaches,” said Baxter recently “We can play good football and we can have big reputations but that doesn’t count for very much if you lose.” And he knows that the Nedbank Cup is his only chance at redemption. Baxter is already tainted in the eyes of the Amakhosi faithful. He came when the club were about to play the final of the Champions League and did not allow Arthur Zwane to continue with the team.  This was seen as a way to try and steal the limelight (and a medal) from Zwane who had guided the team through to the final. For the supporters to forget that, or forgive him, Baxter will have to deliver to them a trophy, and soon. “The Nedbank Cup is the ultimate. You win, or you’re out.”  Chiefs meet Galaxy in the first round of Ke Yona on Saturday in what is expected to be a cracker of a game that either team can easily win or lose.