Fans will know Greteli Fincham (now de Swardt) as the talented matric student who landed the role of Elani in the popular family series, Alles Malan in 2019. She got engaged to videographer, Juan de Swardt, in November last year and they got married during an intimate wedding ceremony on 2 February. With the wedding being so soon after their engagement, the fact that Greteli wanted to get married in her mother’s wedding dress, made things a lot easier. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. In an interview leading up to the wedding, the actress told Sarie that her mother’s style is timeless and one of her most beautiful characteristics. She said that when she and Juan decided on their wedding date, she realised that there would never have been enough time to get a wedding dress made. “So, it was perfect that I still have my mother’s dress.” READ: Micro weddings are now a thing, here’s what to know The dress fit Greteli Fincham de Swardt’s figure perfectly – a close-fitted dress with beaded pearl detail along the neck and shoulder lines. Greteli says that when her mother was still a child, she had a collage book filled with pictures of her dream wedding dresses. She apparently pasted tops and bottoms from different pictures together, ultimately designing her own wedding dress, which was later brought to life by one of Greteli’s grandmother’s friends. Twenty-three years later, Greteli walked down the aisle in her mother’s wedding dress. Seeing that her name means pearl, it was also rather fitting for the occasion. She told Sarie that she never had a specific dream dress in mind, but that she felt very feminine and beautiful in her mother’s wedding dress. “It makes me feel so beautiful and elegant. I love it.” Greteli and Juan got married in the heart of Stellenbosch and the wedding ceremony took place in the garden of the house which Juan grew up in. This, and the fact that only their closest family and friends attended the wedding, made the occasion very special.