A cataclysmic first-innings collapse and poor fielding headlined a dismal opening day for the Proteas as they were rolled over for 95, before they let the Black Caps reach the end of play on 116/3 in the first Test at Hagley Oval in Christchurch on Thursday. A Matt Henry masterclass with the ball saw the New Zealand quick pick up career best figures of 7/23, as he tore through the Proteas batting order to have them all out at tea. The visitors then needed to be extremely sharp with the ball and in the field to try and pull the match back, but it was only the bowlers who did their job as they created chances, only for the fielders to put down four catches during the final session. At the start of play, New Zealand had won the toss and immediately chose to bowl in perfect conditions, which was confirmed as the Proteas struggled to 44/4 at lunch. Henry removed Dean Elgar (1) in the second over caught at third slip to get the early wicket in the second over and then returned just before lunch to get rid of Aiden Markram (15) and Rassie van der Dussen (8), both caught behind in the same over to have the visitors in trouble at the break. ALSO READ: Green wicket holds key to New Zealand, South Africa first Test In the afternoon session only Zubayr Hamza (25) and Kyle Verreynne (18) showed any resistance with a 33-run sixth-wicket partnership, but once Henry broke that stand he helped clean up the tail with a four-wicket burst in eight balls, as the Proteas lost their last five wickets for 10 runs. The Black Caps chase then got off to a tricky start as the Proteas bowlers exploited the good conditions well. Opener Tom Latham was dropped on nine by Marco Jansen at gully to deny debutant Glenton Stuurman his first Test wicket, before Jansen came into the attack himself and got the breakthrough, having Will Young (8) caught behind by keeper Kyle Verreynne. The drop didn’t cost too much as Latham was then bowled by Duane Olivier for 16, as New Zealand slipped to 36/2, but Johannesburg born Devon Conway (36) and Henry Nicholls (37 not out) then combined for a 75-run third wicket stand to power into a lead. Nicholls was dropped twice during the partnership, on five by Hamza at third slip off the bowling of Olivier and then by Temba Bavuma on 23 off the bowling of Kagiso Rabada. Olivier then finally made the breakthrough just before the close of play, as Conway inside edged onto his stumps with the score on 111/3. The Proteas, however, still had time to have one more dropped catch as Van der Dussen dropped night-watchman Neil Wagner at silly mid-on off Olivier in the last over to complete a miserable day.