Blitzboks coach Neil Powell received a significant upgrade over the weekend when the Sharks confirmed that he would be taking over as their director of rugby after the Sevens World Cup in September. It had already been confirmed that Powell would be leaving the Blitzboks at the end of the current season and that he would be linking up with the Sharks, but he was initially set to sign on as their defence coach. However with the Sharks still on the hunt for a Director of Rugby after they were unable to convince Brendan Venter at one stage to sign on permanently, the decision was made to move Powell into the position instead. “After a nine-year stint with the Blitzboks this is a new challenge for my personal development and an exciting opportunity that has been presented to me that I gladly accept with great honour,” stated Powell in a press release from the Sharks. “The Sharks is an unbelievable brand and I’m looking forward to working with the likes of Ed and Sean, who already have a strong vision of where they want to go in the future and if I can contribute in any way to achieving that vision that would be great. “I am looking forward to the challenge and how I can positively contribute to making this franchise hugely successful not just in South Africa, but globally as well. This will be a collective effort by every person involved in the set-up.” In the same statement Sharks CEO Eduard Coetzee explained the decision along with other changes to be implemented from the start of the 2022/23 season to ensure sustained success and support for coaches Sean Everitt and Etienne Fynn and their teams for the URC and Currie Cup competitions respectively. “Neil is an unbelievable human being and what he has developed and achieved with the Blitzboks has been phenomenal. He has inculcated a strong work ethic and a sound culture at the Blitzboks where accountability and respect is at the fore,” explained Coetzee. “As Director of Rugby at The Sharks, Neil will oversee our entire on-field rugby programme and will support the various coaching teams within our set-up. He will be responsible for driving on-field high performance, team culture, standards and will ensure that there is a thorough process and a blueprint developed to achieve sustainable success at the highest level. “Sean Everitt remains as head coach of the senior team and Sean will benefit from Neil’s experience, guidance and support as well as the operational structures that Neil will implement to ensure an optimal high performance working environment, which in turn drives performance on the field.” Coetzee added, “This is a hugely exciting time for The Sharks and will ensure that everyone is aligned in terms of our vision moving forward. I’m extremely positive about this development, and Neil has my full support as well as the support of The Sharks board and ownership group.” In other exciting news for the Sharks, Springbok lock Eben Etzebeth is on the verge of signing for the Franchise after Toulon on Sunday confirmed he had negotiated an early end to his contract which they had accepted. In a statement released by the club they Etzebeth said: “I am sad to have to leave Toulon and my teammates at the end of the season but personal reasons force me to do so.”