Episode two of The Real Housewives of Durban (RHODurban) is out, and the episode opened with a look at new castmate Jojo Robinson’s life at home.  Viewers also finally get the long-awaited debut of Uthando Nesthembu star Thobile ‘’MaKhumalo” Mseleku, whose first scene was alongside her famous husband Musa. The pair meet at her marital home in Mzumbe to discuss her latest job which requires her to spend more time in Durban in her other home, away from the Mseleku family homestead.  They then discuss her introduction to the   Later in the episode, some of the ladies (Nonku, Annie, Jojo and Sorisha) meet up for lunch.Annie’s wedding is brought up once again after she mentions her friendship with Londie, and the group seeks to find out why Londie was not at her wedding if they were such good friends.  She blamed it on Covid capacity restrictions. Annie then called out Nonku’s mom for her conduct at the lunch in episode one, and Nonku immediately defended her mother’s vanity.  She then goes back to her mother with what Annie had to say, and the pair then decide that Annie is the one in the wrong.  The conversation between Nonku and her mom quickly becomes about her mother’s past marriage to her father, which was abusive.  Nonku then confronts her mother and tells her that she thinks she needs to face her ex-husband and speak to him.  Speaking to Mabusi during their catch up session, LaConco spoke more about her marriage to former president Jacob Zuma.During last week’s   This week, LaConco told Mabusi about her chat with Sorisha and why she chose to open up to her and felt comfortable doing so.  She expressed her gratitude that Sorisha was observant enough to pick up on the fact that she was heartbroken.  “Speaking to Sorisha has helped me a great deal because there were things that she picked up on that I had suppressed,” said LaConoco during her diary session.  “I think it’s always good to purge when you’re ready.”  During their conversation, Mabusi displayed a side of her that fans fell in love with, a side that made LaConco feel comfortable enough to open up even more.  She said that although she did not need her husband to be in their home 24/7, she did miss his presence as the man of the house when it came to making certain decisions that she felt he should have been privy to.  She chalked his absence up to the fact that he didn’t have the time to be the kind of husband she needed.  LaConco said she has gone through all the stages of grief when dealing with what sounds like the end of her marriage.  “My biggest lesson is to accept, that’s it,” she concluded.  Episode two of   That is, at least, until Nonku arrived to stir the pot with Annie, after Annie called her mother rude.  The evening ends with an invitation to a black-tie event that requires the ladies to show up with their husbands, something that not every cast member has.  Londie did express her excitement about potentially meeting LaConco’s new man, though.